this is not your typical Instagram clone
we're bringing you a modern social app
with stunning UI with a native mobile
feel a special text stack an infinite
scroll feature and amazing performance
have you ever struggled with complicated
server setups worrying about security
handling user off scaling managing and
storing files securely and optimizing
API performance without losing countless
development hours if that is the case
Cas you're not alone and I've got
something that can help whether you're a
new or a season developer thinking of
starting a fresh side project doing all
these things on your own can be quite a
hassle so hi there and welcome to a new
project video where you'll build and
deploy an amazing social site with a
hassle-free backend thanks to aight
Cloud it allows you to create a backend
faster than Thanos snaps his fingers and
at a much lower cost than scary Firebase
for pro plans you'll get what you would
otherwise have to pay in Firebase for
free with aite but what are we building
the app you'll build contains a robust
and stunning authentication system a
homepage for exploring posts shared by
others with top creators featured on the
right the ability to like and save posts
accessible through a separate dedicated
page and you might think here we go
again another Instagram clone but trust
me this is not your typical app sure
you've probably mastered the basics of
crowd operations but have you ever had a
chance to implement that one incredible
feature that's had us all hooked for
decades yes the infinite scroll we'll
implement it inside the explore page
integrate it together with the sech
functionality and I will teach you how
to do the same for all other Pages too
and moving to other phenomenal features
will develop a detailed post page that
also displays related posts a profile
page showcasing your liked posts and the
ability to edit your profile similarly
browsing other users and their profiles
a create post page for sharing all kinds
of memories you would like to share with
effortless file management and storage
and a drag and drop feature an edit post
page to edit the contents of your post
anytime and so much more with an amazing
responsive UI with the Bottom bar that
surely gives the feel of a native mobile
app does it sound exciting as it does to
me we'll develop all of these all well
learning react react context API complex
react routing with outlet and
conditional rendering we'll use the
latest version 5.0 of the backand
agnostic data fetching Library famously
known as react query now t stack query
that will allow us to implement autoc
caching ref fetching parallel queries a
first class mutations loading State
Management and more then you'll also
learn Tailwind shaten ight Cloud as a
backend as a service tool and everyone's
favorite typescript there is a lot to
learn so I hope you're pumped to learn
these exciting features and master the
Most Wanted skills to impress potential
employees ERS and clients with that said
before we dive into the development of
this app there's one more thing that we
must do and that is set up an account on
aight Cloud so right now click the
special link in the description that's
going to allow you to follow along with
this video and create a phenomenal
backend with an aight Cloud once you
click it their homepage is going to open
and then you can go to sign up once
you're in you can sign in or sign up the
simplest way to do it is using GitHub
once you're in you'll have to create
your first project use JSM to start with
and then add an underscore and add your
app name I'm going to choose snapgram
but you can choose anything else maybe
something with just a bit more
imagination and then click create
project and we are in operate cloud is
going to allow us to create robust
secure and scalable backend applications
it provides sdks and server functions
that you can integrate with with any
kind of framework some of the best
features they offer and at the same time
the features we'll use to create this
project are o where you'll be able to
add specific team-based and
permission-based security they offer o
options from email and password to Magic
URLs and more than 30 social sign-ins
the next thing we'll use in our project
are going to be databases you can add
more than one database for a specific
project in the process of creating it is
super simple then you can of course add
many different Collections and the best
thing is each collection has its own
attributes which can be of a lot of
different types and you have advanced
permissions on a collection level the
next feature I'll also teach you how to
use is storage it allows us to quickly
create buckets of different files where
we can store any kind of images and even
export them and transform them to reduce
file sizes and finally there are
cloud-based serverless functions and the
best thing about aite is that it offers
all of these features for free setting
it apart from traditional backend
diservice Tools in terms of pricing and
value and because of that it's no
surprise that aide has become a trending
project on GitHub so now that you're set
up with aide and hopefully excited for
what we're are about to build together
let's Dive Right In to get started with
developing our phenomenal in Instagram
clone application we can start by
creating a new empty folder on our
desktop and let's call it
snapgram once you created it you can
simply drag and drop it into your code
editor of choice in this case Visual
Studio
code once you're there you can go to the
top go to view and then
terminal this is going to open up a
built-in integrated Visual Studio code
terminal lately we've been doing a lot
of next year yes so I'm quite excited to
get back to react a bit we're going to
use vit which is the fastest way to set
up our development environment for react
so head to VJs dodev and click get
started once you're here you can scroll
down a bit and you can see that you can
initialize your V application by running
mpm create V at latest so paste that
Command right here add a slash to create
it in the current snapgram repository
we're in and press
enter this is going to ask you whether
you want to install the create feed
package to which you're going to say why
or yes and then you can choose which
type of application you want to run in
this case we're going to choose react we
will use typescript so you can press
enter and that's it you can run mpm
install to install all the necessary
dependencies and then mpm runev to see
it in our browser the installation
usually takes just a couple of seconds
so let's wait for it and then we'll be
able to run the app once it is done
press mpm run Dev this is going to spin
up our application on Local Host
5173 and you can see it took less than a
second to spin it up so hold control and
then click right here to open it up once
you do that you'll see a simple V and
react starter this means that we are
ready to get started with creating the
base file and folder structure of our
application so let's start from
beginning here we have our source inside
of which our entire application will be
here we have assets which we can move to
the public folder just to clean up what
we have in the source we're going to
have a couple of different CSS files but
for now I want you to delete everything
that's inside of the source as a matter
of fact let's delete the entire Source
itself because we're going to recreate
it immediately after so create a new
source folder so we can start from
scratch and the main point of cont we
need here is a file called main. TSX
this is the starting point of our
application where we can import react
from react and the only file where we're
going to import react Dom from react Dom
as well once you've imported it you can
say react
dom. create root this is the root or the
starting point of our application so we
have to Target our root by saying
document. getet element
by ID and we pass a string of root and
then you say. render and inside of here
we can render a self-closing app
component of course this app has to be
created and imported from somewhere so
let's create a new app. TSX page this is
going to be our primary router component
so inside of there run ra
Ace this is a shortcut to create a react
Arrow function component
if this didn't work for you you might
not have the necessary extension to do
so so head to extensions and type es7
plus react Redux react native Snippets
install this package and then you'll be
able to run that command as well with
that said we can now import this app
within the main so let's simply
doubleclick this app and press control
or command space that's going to open
this up which is going to allow you to
just click it and Auto Import we're
going to use this functionality many
times throughout this video so you'll
get used to it one thing that I noticed
is that create root doesn't exist in
react Dom and that's because react Dom
has to be imported from
react-dom SL client and then here this
is potentially null so we have to also
add an exclamation mark at the end so
typescript doesn't complain and no
longer are react Imports necessary so
with that we have our main and we have
our app these are the starting points of
our application if you go back and zoom
in really closely you can see our div
that says app now I know that this is a
pretty simple start and you might
already know how to set all of this up
but let me just remind you that what
you're about to build today is
extraordinary it's not something you've
built so far we're going to use the best
Technologies today to create a complete
comprehensive Instagram clone with
liking saving top creators
functionalities and much more so just
keep watching and step by step we'll get
there and you'll know how to create this
application from
scratch now that we have the app we also
have to have some basic styles for that
we're going to create a new file called
global. CSS keep in mind that all the
Tailwind styling that we'll be doing
through this video will be done by you
directly within components but we have
to have some helper classes here to make
her life a bit easier so in the
description down below you can find a
GitHub gist that contains a global stat
CSS file copy it and paste it here
you're going to notice that here we have
some helper functions for the top bar
for postcard image and so on which apply
multiple Tailwind CSS classes so if at
any point you want to see what a grid
container is it's simply a set of
utility classes to make that grid
container possible so with that said we
can import the global. CSS right within
the app by saying
import. global. CSS but hey this global.
CSS file is using Tailwind so let's go
ahead and let's set up tailwind and if
you haven't heard of Tailwind Tailwind
is a phenomenal utility first CSS
framework pack with utility classes to
make our styling simpler it doesn't
impose rules like UI libraries do but
rather it allows you to create custom
Styles much more quickly so let's click
get started and let's install Tailwind
CSS but we can also search for V this is
going to tell us how to install Tailwind
with vit we first have to run mpm
install DD Tailwind CSS post CSS and
auto prefixer so back in our app you can
go to terminal and let's go ahead and
open up a new terminal window and within
here simply paste it and press enter
this is going to install the necessary
packages for us to be able to style
using Tailwind once that is done you can
also copy and paste the next
command MPX Tailwind CSS in it- P this
is going to initialize and create the
necessary projects such as the Tailwind
config JS next you have to configure
your template paths so simply copy the
content from here and go to Tailwind doc
config.js once you're there simply
modify this content to what we copied
from the documentation finally add
tailing directives to your
CSS that's going to be within the
globals and we have already done that
with our Global
CSS finally run mpm run Dev and then you
can style your hello world with a couple
of classes to see if it works so back in
our app we can now modify the app to say
hello
snapgram let's save it and back in our
app we can see that this is now on H1
but the styles don't seem to be applied
if they were getting applied we would be
able to see the
underline so to make it work there are a
couple of things we need to do alongside
the globals we also have to modify the
Tailwind doc config.js to include some
additional theming options for our great
application so in the description down
below you'll be able to find a modified
Tailwind doc config.js file which you
can simply copy and then paste right
here it's going to include some font
families can use widths screen sizes but
more importantly colors so every time we
want to specify this dark color we don't
have to say 0909 08 we simply say dark 2
and the second thing we have to do to
make it work is if you notice here we're
importing something known as Tailwind
CSS animate so copy that go to your
terminal and then you have to run mpm
install
dasd and then Tailwind CSS animate this
is that extra plug-in that's going to
allow us to play with just a bit more
animations it quickly got installed you
can go back to your application press
contrl C to stop it from running and
finally rerun the application by running
mpm run
Dev and quickly our application is up
and running on Local Host 5173 and we
can see that this H1 is indeed
underlined which means that the Tailwind
styles are getting properly installed
and we can also see the dark background
which means that our base styles are
getting properly applied and in a
nutshell that means that Tailwind has
been properly set up so what should we
do next well let's set up the base
routing of our application by creating a
couple of routes and there for a couple
of pages and in react to do the routing
you have to install an additional
package by running mpm install react
router Dom the only package you need to
manage the routes once it is in
installed we can head to the main. TSX
file here you can import something known
as a browser router coming from
react-router-dom and then we can wrap
our application in a browser router just
like
so there we go the app is going to go
within it this means that now the
browser router is going to control the
routing for our entire application which
may makes our ab. DSX that much more
powerful because now within here we can
import routes as well as a route from
react router Dom once you do that you
can wrap everything in a main section
we'll be using HTML 5 semantic tags all
across the video you can also give it a
class name equal to flex and h- Screen
meaning it's going to take 100% of the
screen now you can see how I quickly
hovered over it and I can see exactly
what CSS properties have been applied
this is a pretty cool extension for
Tailwind so if you don't have it already
just type Tailwind CSS intellisense the
first extension that pops up install it
and if you're not a fan of Tailwind you
can still follow along but you'll know
exactly which properties are getting
applied for the ones that don't get this
hover you can simply search them here
here and then you'll be able to find
them within global. CSS with that said
we can wrap everything in a routes
parent within the routes we'll be able
to Define two types of routes public
routes and also private routes public
routes are the routes that everybody
will be able to see the sign up and the
sign in and private routes are the
routes that you'll be able to see only
if you're signed in so let's create our
two first routes let's do a
route which is going to be a
self-closing
component that's going to have a pth of
SL sign
in and it's going to render an element
of sign in form it's going to be a
self-closing
element now of course this is a page or
a component which we have to import
inside of here and we can also repeat
this with our first private route so we
can say route self close it give it an
index this means that this is the
starting page and then the element is
going to be a home component so we can
put a self-closing home component right
here now of course we have to import
these components from somewhere so let's
create the structure needed to do so in
the source folder we're going to create
two new folders one is going to be
called _ o and the other is going to be
called underscore root these are two
folders that are going to make it
simpler for us to know what is public
and what is not within oth we're going
to create a new folder called forms and
within forms we're going to have our
signin form. TSX where we can run rafc
this is going to create a simple signin
form
component Within forms we can also
create another one which is going to be
signup form. TSX we can also run
RFC and outside of forms but inside of
underscore o we want to create a
layout o layout. TSX and there we can
run our efce as well this layout is
going to wrap both of our signin and
sign up forms it's going to have things
like the logo as well as this wonderful
image gallery that appears on the right
side and then the forms will change
depending on the URL how cool is that
that's why we have this generic layout
but then components are going to be the
ones that change the form and we're
going to have a similar thing for our
root within the root we're going to have
a folder called Pages within Pages we're
of course going to have our home.
DSX where we can run
rafc but outside of pages we're going to
have have our underscore root that's
going to
contain a root layout. TSX or we can
also run RFC and of course the layout
for the homepages is going to contain
things like this sidebar on the left
sidebar on the right and more now within
root Pages we're going to have many many
different pages I mean tens of pages by
when we're done with this application so
we don't want to Simply import each one
in a new line so we can create a new
index.ts file which is going going to
allow us to import them in a cleaner way
but first we have to export each
component we have so we can say export
default as home from
slome and now we can close all of these
new open files go back to the app we can
automatically import signin form
fromo forms signin form and import home
from root Pages while we're here we can
duplicate our signin routee and simply
exchange it for sign up and here we can
say sign up form which we can also
import from o forms now notice how for
the O forms it imported them as default
Imports whereas for the home it imported
it as the named import which is going to
allow us to later on import page one
page two and all the other Pages within
a single line to keep our code more tidy
great so now we have the base structure
and you know how the routing is going to
work but there's one missing piece we
haven't utilized our layouts and the
react router Dom allows us to do so
easily you can create a new route just
like the routes you created before but
this time it's not going to be self-
closing it's going to accept an element
which is going to be the O layout we
created which you can automatically
import from o layout and then with in it
we can place additional elements or
pages that are going to appear there how
clever is that it allows you to use the
layout but then immediately place the
pages using that layout within so we can
repeat the same procedure with our
private routes as well where we're going
to have a
route and there we're going to have an
element of root layout of course it has
to be defined as a self-closing
component and then we can place all of
the home routes right
here great so now you can see we have a
lot of imports already but we have done
a great job in setting up our path for
Success so now going back to Local Host
5173 the only thing we can see is the
root layout but soon enough you'll be
able to see much more than that so how
would you feel if I told you we're going
to start with this completely custom and
stunning sign up and sign in script
screen after all for our social media
app to work we first have to onboard our
users that are later on going to upload
their posts most likely it's going to be
cat photos as it usually is on the
internet but that's up to them it's up
to us to allow them to do so on a
beautifully designed and fast platform
so let's jump into the signup form the
first thing that our user will see our
signup form will be just that a
form and in this application we'll be
using Shad CN styling
Library it is a library of beautifully
designed components that you can
customize using Tailwind everything from
dashboards cards tasks playgrounds and
of course forms you'll be able to create
wonderful but also simple and
minimalistic forms everything you need
is there
so to get started with chat CN we can
head through their documentation and
then
installation in this case we're using
vit we already set up the project and we
already initialized Tailwind next we
have to modify our TS config.js by
adding this thing in paths so we can
open up our file explorer and then go to
TSC config.js so press copy right here
go to your file explorer and then go to
TS config.js right here below linting
we're going to add a Shad CN note and we
can paste the base
URL as well as pads but don't forget to
add a comma right here next you have to
install types
node so that the V config can resolve
paths without errors for that we can
open up terminal paste it and press
enter once installed we can also copy
our
paths and then go to V.C
config.txt
in it let's press y to install it and
then we'll have to answer a couple of
questions we would like to use
typescript yes we would like a default
style yes we're going to use the Slate
Coler our Global CSS file is within
Source SLG global. CSS so we have to
modify that we do want to use CSS
variables our Tailwind config JS file is
located right
here so we can simply press enter and we
can press enter for the import alas as
well for utils 2 and we do want to use
use react server components and we can
write a configuration so simply yes yes
yes enter enter enter and then y to
submit it this is going to install the
necessary dependencies and then we'll be
able to start using shaten components
that's it this was the last step right
here now a big difference between shaten
and other UI libraries is that shaten
with this config didn't add absolutely
any code to our project it will only add
the code and the component components
that we actually need so we'll have to
manually add every single component we
want to use so let's use their button
example to start with copy this command
paste it in the terminal and press enter
it's going to say installing button and
if you pay close attention you'll be
able to notice that it's going to create
a complete new folder called components
UI and there's going to be the code for
the button that's why shaten is so cool
it doesn't add any code you don't need
need it simply adds a button component
we just installed and you can modify its
source code it's not like we'll need to
do that but you can if you want to so
with that said now we have everything
set up and let's try to use that button
within our signup form the only thing
you need to do to do that is import
button from component UI button and then
use it so back in our app let's do just
that import button we're going to copy
this button and just use it right here
within this
div let's press save and back in our
application if you go to for slash
sign-up which is the route for our
signup
page you can see the O layout that's
correct and the reason for that is that
our o layout it's not returning any
pages that are within it so to be able
to see this button let's first focus on
implementing the O
layout the only thing we'll need in here
are two special components from react
router Dom so let's import a component
called Outlet interesting name I'm going
to soon let you know what it does and
then navigate and we can import that
from react router
Dom now later on we'll have to figure
out if a user is authenticated so for
now we can simply say is
authenticated is equal to let's do fals
for now later on this is going to be a
dynamic value based off this Boolean
variable we can return a react
fragment but then we can open a new
Dynamic block of code and say if is
authenticated in that case if we are
authenticated we can return a navigate
to forward slash so we want to navigate
the user to the home but if we're not
authenticated in that case we can
return a react
fragment like this that's going to have
a section within it and that section is
going to render the outlet meaning what
has to be on the page we're on such as
sign up or sign in whatever is Within
These pages right here great so now
let's save this go back to our app and
you can see a wonderful click me button
great now let's go back to the normal
size and let's actually start
implementing what we can see here on the
finished website a complete sign up and
sign-in pages with the design and the
forms to do that we can first style the
layout a bit by giving this section A
Class name equal to flex Flex
D1 justify Dash
Center so we need to ensure that the
form is centered horizontally as well as
items Das Center which is going to
center it vertically it's going to be
one below another so flex-all and
padding y of 10 meaning padding on top
and bottom this is going to now Center
it but on the right side of the screen
we want to show this beautiful image so
to do that we can render a self-closing
image tag that's going to have a source
off and now how are we going to get
access to this image I created a few
wonderful assets that I want you to be
able to use so so down in the
description in that same GitHub gist
folder where the code is you'll be able
to find a link to a zipped public folder
download it unzip it delete the existing
public folder and then simply paste the
new one right here not within the source
like I did it happens you have to put it
right here outside of everything so it
appears on top of the source folder and
once you have it there you'll be able to
see the assets that contain icons and
images which means that we can Define
our path right here it's going to be
for/ assets slash images
slide-img do SVG the alt is going to be
logo and class name is going to be
hidden so usually on mobile devices it
will be hidden but on extra large
devices it will be showing so it's a
block we wanted to take the full height
of the screen so h- screen the width is
going to be 1/2 so 1/ two it's going to
be object cover and BG no repeat great
so now that we have modified our o
layout we can close it and if we go back
to our website it's going to look like
this pretty cool right we have the right
side which is the image and then we have
the button on the left side which right
now doesn't do absolutely anything but
soon enough it will that's because we'll
create a comprehensive sign up and
sign-in form and we'll do that using
shaten most comprehensive and most
complex component and that is the form
so go here and search for the form it is
the most comprehensive one because forms
are tricky they're one of the most
common things you'll build in web
applications but also one of the most
complex so that's why shaten
automatically out of the bot uses react
hook form which is a great library for
managing forms and states and then Zod
which is great for form validation here
we can learn a bit more about the
anatomy of a form so you have a form
component and then you have form Fields
within it each form field has a control
a name and then you can choose how it's
going to look like it's going to render
an item a label form control description
and a message and here we have a
complete form example so let's go ahead
and follow the steps to create our form
first we need to copy the command to
install it so we can go back go to our
second terminal and paste the command to
add the form soon enough it will be done
and then we can actually use it so first
we have to define the shape of our form
by using a Zod schema of course you can
learn more about Zod in the official Zod
documentation but don't worry it's a
pretty simple IDE library to use and I'm
going to teach you how to use it so
let's copy import everything as Z from
Zod and then const form schema we can
paste that right here at the top we can
put this import on top as it is external
import and we're going to put this right
here because it is coming right here
from our code and this form schema is
going to go right here within our
component the next thing they say we
have to do is Define a form by using the
use form hook coming from the react hook
form Library so let's go ahead and
import import Zod resolver as well as Z
from Zod as well as the form
schema which in this case can be placed
above the component but then we'll also
need to import the form and everything
else that is in here so instead of
copying everything let's copy just the
things that we need first I'm going to
copy the Zod resolver paste it right
here at the top and then I'm going to
copy the entire form right here or
rather just the definition of a form and
we can paste it right here on top and
the form schema can go outside right
here so now we're defining our form
we're also using the form and this has
to be imported from react hook form the
use form right here but now that we have
defined it we can actually build out our
form so we need to import all of the
different components that go into
building a form which we can paste right
here on top and you can notice that one
of these is an input which is another
component we have to install because if
you check the component so far you can
notice the form label and button but no
input so to install the input you know
what we need to do just say MPX CH C Nui
latest add
input it is as simple as that we can
also put all of these components in one
line so it's easier to see everything
just like so and then we can actually
build build out our form by copying the
form right here and let's paste it
instead of this
button we can indent it properly and
save it and that's it you now have a
fully accessible form that is type safe
with client side validation and let's
see if it actually looks like this and
would you look at that it looks amazing
but it's only one input and one button
but the validation is working
wonderfully and chatan has this
beautiful button minimalistic UI so now
let's convert this into this and make it
fully functional to do that we won't
simply keep everything in a single file
as that would quickly clutter our view
and wouldn't be so reusable so we're
going to use many reusable practices to
turn this into a component that we can
then reuse and manage its data more
efficiently and the first step we'll do
to achieve that is we're going to
extract this form schema into a separate
vol validations file so let's go ahead
and go to file explorer collapse
everything and go within Source within
lib and then right here create a new
folder called
validation within it we can create a new
index.ts file and within index we can do
something similar to what we have done
in the signup form we can import
everything as Z from
Zod and then we can create Define a form
schema so right here let's define it but
in this file we're going to keep many
different form schemas so we have to
Define which one is it this is going to
be a signup validation schema and we're
not going to Define it in this file and
then not use it we have to say export
const sign up validation to be able to
use it so now we can go back to our
signup form and we can import form
schema or rather we can rename it to
signup validation coming from
atli SLV validation and we can use it in
three places where we used it before and
in this case we also need a z from Zod
as we're referencing it right here as a
type great so now we have just extracted
one thing but instead of Simply
extracting That Base example we had
let's actually make it a bit more
meaningful we're not just going to have
a username we're going to have a name as
well well so let's define it at the top
let's say name is going to be a z.
string with a minimum of two
characters and then as the second
parameter of a specific option you can
provide the error message so in this
case we can say a message is something
like to
short there we go and then you can
continue doing that we have the username
username is going to also be a minimum
of two characters we don't need a
maximum here and we can also provide a
message of something like too short then
we can have an email which is going to
be a z.
string. email like so and then we can
have a password which is going to be z.
string and it's going to be a men of
eight characters and we're going to say
to short if it's less than
eight of course feel free to provide
more meaningful error messages something
like password must be at least eight
characters you can do that for all the
other ones now we have our proper signup
validation but as you can notice we're
using it here but as for the default
values we're simply defining the
username so let's also add a name at the
start equal to an empty
string let's also do a username after
that we're going to have an
email and finally we're going to have a
password so now we're starting to create
the structure for what our form is yet
to become and of course the next thing
we have to do is actually create our
form with all of the necessary form
Fields so if we go back to the finished
site right now we still have just the
input but let's go ahead and put this
side by side with our editor so we can
see the changes that we make live now we
have our form on the right side and the
code on the left so let's go ahead and
turn this into an actual final form to
look exactly like this one does to be
able to do that we can start with the
outer div or rather with the form we
don't need to wrap the form with
anything as the form is going to be the
most outer side container so we can
remove this outer div and we can select
everything within the form just like so
and indent it properly I always try to
keep my code
clean now within the this form we're
going to have a div so right here create
a new
div and this div is going to have a
class name equal to on small devices
width is going to be
420 it's going to be Flex Center and
it's going to be Flex C so the elements
appear one below another next we have to
create this logo on the top so let's
immediately do that here we can render a
self-closing image that's going to have
a source of / assets SL images SL
logo.svg and you can give it an ALT tag
of logo now if you save it you should be
able to see a nice looking logo appear
right on top as soon as you reload and
there we go you can see logo's icon
actually the entire logo is there as you
can see when I drag and drop it here but
you cannot see it as the background is
white so let's go ahead and figure out
why our background is not dark as it was
dark before if you head to your global.
CSS file you'll notice it got
overwritten by shaten and it's no longer
applying the black background on our
body so once again to get back to our
previous globals you'll have to go to
the GitHub jiz down below copy it and
then paste it right over here once you
do that you're going to get an error
because our tail wi. config.js also got
overridden so copy it from the GitHub
gist and then paste it right here that's
going to ensure that you have access to
all the necessary theme colors and
everything is going to work as it should
now with the dark mode so below this
image let's create an H2 that's going to
say something like create a new
account and we can give it a class name
of H3 bold now I know what you're
thinking why H3 if the element is H2
well that's because on medium devices is
it's going to be H2 bold so we're going
to make it a bit smaller there we can
also give it a padding top of five so PT
of five and then small devices a larger
PT of 12 to create some spacing below
the H2 we can have a P tag and this P
tag is going to say to use
snapgram enter your account
details and now we can give it a class
name that's going to say text-
light-3 small- medium for the font size
on medium devices base Dash regular and
a margin top of 12 and we don't
necessarily have to say count just
details to use a bit less width now we
want to wrap our entire form within this
div so let's copy the ending tag and
paste it right here below the end of the
form and let's expand our form to fit
nicely right here
there we go now our form is going to
have a class name of
flex
flex-all gap of five w- full and then
margin top of four this is going to make
the elements extend the full width of
the screen or rather full width of the
container so now everything looks
uniform the first field we have is going
to be a name field we can change the
form label to name and we can remove the
placeholder but rather we can give it a
type is equal to
text and a class name equal to Shad
input if we save this it's going to get
this beautiful view and we don't need a
form description I believe a title or
rather a label is enough so now we're
getting closer to this final view so
let's go ahead and duplicate this form
field right here below and the second
one is going to say username
and we can change it to username here as
well that's great two done two more to
go let's duplicate it two more times the
next one is going to say email and we
can say email here as well as change the
type of the field to email there we go
and the last one is going to of course
be the password so let's change this to
password type password as well and say
password here so now once we type here
it's actually going to be dots meaning
it's hidden and finally we need a
beautiful button that's going to allow
us to submit the form so let's give this
button type submit a class name equal to
Shad dasb button undor
primary there we go but it's not always
going to say submit sometimes it has to
load meaning we've submitted it and it's
doing its action so what we can do is
create for now a fake field called is
loading so const is loading is at the
start going to be set to true and now if
we go back we can use that property to
make some Dynamic changes if is loading
in that case we can return a div that's
going to have a class name equal to flex
Center and a gap of two between the
center and the flex you need to have a
dash and here we can say loading dot dot
dot else we're going to render something
else which is simply a text that's going
to say sign up and there we go now we
can see loading but to make this loading
a bit more interesting let's create a
new component called loader so we can go
to our components and create a new
folder within there called shared these
are components that are shared all
across our application within it we can
create a new loader. TSX and run
rafc within here we can wrap everything
in a div that div is going to have a
class name equal to flex Center and
w-o and within it we can render just one
self-closing image with a source equal
to SL assets SL ions SL
loader. SVG we can have an ALT tag of
loader we can have have a width of about
24 and a height of
24 now if we go back to our signup form
we can call our self closing loader
right here by putting it here and then
double clicking and pressing control or
command space to import it from
components if you save it you can see
this loader appear right here which is
amazing now of course we're not
submitting yet so what we can do is
bring this is loading to false because
we haven't haven't yet submitted we have
nothing to load and now we have our
beautiful form that you can see right
here it is a bit wider and that's
because we here have more words to use
snapgram please enter your details let's
see what do we have here to use
snapgram okay let's be nice and say
please enter your details which is going
to make her form a bit wider great and
now that we have all of those fields we
have to figure out how to actually
submit them but before that we're
missing just one additional piece of
information which is the link to go to
the login as well in case we already
have an account so right here below this
button we can create a P tag that's
going to have a class name equal to
text- small- regular text-
light-2 and text- center and margin top
of two so that's going to provide this
nice centered text we can say already
have an
account and if that is the case we can
render a link component this link has to
be imported from we don't have it here
but it should be coming from react
router Dom so right here at the top we
can say import link from react router
Dom and now if we go down this is
looking good and what is this link going
to say well well it's going to point to
forward SL sign in it's going to have a
class name of text-
primary and it's going to say log in
there we go let's style it a bit further
by giving it a text primary 500 which is
the shade of the color text- small- semi
bold and finally a margin left of
one so now it's looking great and it's
going to redirect us to the sign in in
form which doesn't exist yet we're going
to create it as soon as we implement the
functionality to actually log our users
in that's definitely the first thing we
have to do right so how is that going to
work well everything starts with a
button that has a type of submit and
once we submit it it's going to submit
the entire form right here that form is
going to call the handle submit function
which we have here and then the only
question is what do we want to do on
submit and the simple answer is we want
to create the user and that usually
looks something like this we say const
new user is equal to a wait why a wait
because usually creating a user takes
some time it is an asynchronous action
in the database which means we have to
specify this as an async function and
then usually the function to create a
user is called create user account to
which we want to pass the values but as
you can see we don't yet have the create
user account function so let's comment
this out and we have no idea where is
this event coming from how are we going
to create our user and thankfully for us
this is where aight comes in they're
going to help us with databases
functions storage but in this case o as
we actually have to create our users
and as I've told you at the start we'll
be using ID's Cloud platform click the
special ight Cloud Link in the
description that's going to allow you to
sign in and follow along with this video
seamlessly and then sign in or sign up I
recommend with GitHub and once you're in
you'll be able to create your first
project let's do something like
jmore
snapgram of course this is now going to
be taken by me but whatever name you
decide to take definitely append JSM in
front of it and then click
create there we go our JSM snapgram has
been created and here we have our
getting started guide but thankfully you
won't have to follow it because you're
watching this video and I'm going to
teach you everything step by step to
utilize all of the primary upright Cloud
features we'll be dealing with OD really
soon to create our users databases
functions and even storage so for now
the only thing you have to do is copy
this ID that you've been given for your
project once you do that we can go back
to our
application and then we can go to our
Explorer collapse everything so it's
easier to see as a matter of fact we can
close all the files at the moment and
then go to Source lib and within the lib
we're going to create a new folder
called
aight within aight we're going to create
a new file called
config.sys
so open up your terminal and run mpm
install ight and that's the only
dependency you have to install to make
this work and just to verify in my case
I'm on version
13.0.0.0.0 able to define a couple of
things first of all your project ID and
I think you already know it right it's
the ID we copied from aite but we never
want to share any IDs or keys or Secrets
publicly so for that we're going to use
environment variables so let's go to our
app and then outside of the source we
can create a new env. local file and
within it we can Define the V uncore
aprite uncore projector ID is equal to
this same ID that we copied that way
instead of just simply using plain text
here we'll be able to say import. meta
env. vorea rightor projector ID and that
way it's going to be safe now here you
can notice that our typescript is
complaining a bit saying that EnV does
not exist on typ type import meta and we
just have to let typescript know that
we're using V and that this is actually
going to exist and the way you do that
is in the source you can add a new v-
env. D.S file and there you can type
reference types is equal to v/ client
and then close it like so and add three
dashes at the front once you do that you
can see that it's no longer complaining
but now we can still see some warnings
that these variables are not utilized so
how do we utilize all of these great
appes
functionalities well we can say export
const client for example is equal to new
client so we just have to create an
instance of this client and we're going
to repeat this procedure for everything
else so here we can say account is going
to be equal to
account then we have something like
databases
is equal to new
databases then we have
storage is equal to new
storage and we also have avatars is
equal to new
avatars you can see that it's
complaining for a lot of these saying
that the argument client was not
provided so for all of these to work we
have to pass in the client within them
right here so they know what they're
referring to and with that said we no
longer have any
warnings but now we have to configure
our client and we can do that by saying
client dot set project it's pretty
simple right it's aight config do pro ID
we already have that but there's another
thing we have to do and that is set up
the endpoint so we can say client. set
endpoint and that's going to be
aite config do URL but hey how do we get
this URL it's obvious it has to go here
right and we can import it from envs by
saying import. meta
env. Vore aprite URL so now we have to
go to our env. local and we have to add
the Vore aprite URL is equal to a string
but hey where do we get this aight URL
we didn't see it here in the quick start
docs it's going to say right here that
we can set up endpoint as the https
cloud. aight. V1 so let's copy this and
paste it right here so one more time
that's https
col cloud.
aight.
slv1 and now we are properly configuring
our client and this is all that we need
to get started with authentication so
now alongside config within aite we're
going to create a new file called called
api. TS and within it we can export
async function
create user account that's going to get
in the user that's going to accept the
user as a parameter and then it'll try
to do something do you get where we're
going with this this is the function
we're about to call from within our form
so now we can connect to app right
authentication functionalities to
actually create this user so to do that
let's first follow the proper tab script
Rules by defining the interface for this
user and we can do that by saying that
the user is of a type or rather of the
interface I as an interface new user and
we can Define that within a new folder
that's in the source folder called types
within types we can have a new
index.ts and in the GitHub J down below
you'll be able to find this entire file
that's going to contain a couple of of
different interfaces we can go through
each one of these as we're referencing
it in the code such as in this case
export type I new user which has a name
email username and password and now we
can just import it right here from add/
types and now we know exactly what this
user is all about once we know that we
can open up a new try and catch Block in
the error we can simply consol log the
error and we might as well return it so
return error but the better question is
what are we going to do within the tri
block and here we have to create a new
account by saying con new account is
equal to await account. create and we
need to pass a couple of attributes the
first one is the ID of course we can
just randomly type it but upright
provides us with a great utility
function called ID so we can simply
import ID from aight and then what you
can do is just call it and say id.
unique and that's it it's always going
to provide you with the unique ID and
then we provide the user. email user.
password and user.name and for now we
can return the new account so now you
can also notice this account we're
calling is not defined so let's double
click it and would you look at that we
are already exporting it from the config
and if you go into the config remember
that this is the account utility that we
have established before by passing the
client into it and referencing the
account from aite that's going to allow
us to deal with the O functionalities of
aight Cloud so now we can close all of
this and go back to our form within o
forms sign up form and here we're back
to calling the function that's going to
create a new user
so let's go ahead and
uncommented double click and then press
control space and import it from lib
upright API and we're now hoping that
we're going to get a new user right here
or at least a new account back after the
creation is done so let's go ahead and
conso log that user right here by saying
consol log new user now if we save this
we are ready to submit our form by
entering a name let's do Adrien we can
do JavaScript
Mastery and an email off contact JS
mastery. proo and finally a password so
let's go ahead and click sign
up and we have really good validation
here I'm glad we were able to see it we
need eight characters so I'm going to
enter them and then click sign
up now it seems like nothing has
happened but let's go ahead and go to
inspect and then right here we can check
the console we indeed did get back an
object that says created ad updated ad
email name password update and all this
good stuff which means that this is
coming back from aite which then means
that our user was indeed created it's
that we just didn't do anything with it
which is going to be our next goal so
now if we go back to our ight project
and reload the page you should be able
to see that a new user has been
created and you can even dive into it
see more information about it verify it
check the membership or do a lot more
stuff which is pretty amazing that we're
able to set up authentication this early
in the project but it's not going to be
enough just to create our users we'll
also have to set up our databases and
our storage buckets for all of this to
work because our users will create posts
and we need to be able to create
relations between users posts and more
first we're going to create a new bucket
for our media this is where we're going
to upload our images so let's create a
new bucket and call it
media there we go as simple as it gets
immediately we're given the media ID so
let's go ahead and copy it and back
within our app we can go to our EnV file
and then we can paste it right here but
before say Vore upright
underscore storage uncore ID and then
set this equal to this string that we
got from here this is our storage bucket
now while we're here let's go ahead and
set up our databases as well so click
create database and enter the new
database name called snapcam you don't
have to enter database ID because it
will be generated automatically so just
click create now that we have our
database we can go ahead and copy its ID
so go back and and this time say Vore
aite _ database _ ID and we can paste it
right here so now we have the aight URL
and then three different IDs from three
different services that aight Cloud
offers now while we're here we also need
to Define how our database is going to
look like so the entire database
structure so bear with me let's define
all of the collections and relations
between them that we're going to have in
our app it's going to take some time to
Define them but after that we'll be good
to go for the entirety of this
phenomenal build so let's just click
create collection let's enter our first
collection name which is going to be
posts and click create then you need to
go to settings you need to head down to
permissions and you can allow access
from anywhere by clicking any then check
all the texts and click update
so it's pretty cool how we have a robust
permissions SL roll system built into
aight Cloud next we can repeat the same
process for our users collection so
let's create a new collection called
users click
create go to
settings same thing here we need to add
permissions click any and then take all
the boxes and click update and now
there's going to be a third one which is
going to be called saves and this is
going to be for all the saved
posts within here we can also go to
settings go to
permissions add any and then select all
the boxes and click update and now we
have to start creating relations so
let's go to the posts collection and
again make sure to follow exactly what I
do here because our app is not going to
work if we don't properly set up our
relations
it's important that we create relations
immediately so everything works later on
so go to
attributes and then click create
attribute in this case we're immediately
diving to a complex attribute of a type
relationship in this case we want to
create a two-way relationship and this
is going to be a relationship between a
post and a user so we can say users
attribute key is going to be creator and
then the attribute key in the related
collection is going to be
posts and a relation is going to be many
to
one so this is how it's going to look
like one Creator can have multiple posts
and while we're here it wouldn't be such
a bad idea to start sketching things out
right in our ultimate nextjs 13 course
we were doing a lot of sketching because
we covered a tough project where we have
to deeply explain all of the concept
covered and this often includes a lot of
sketching so in this video I want to
also do the same I want to give you a
bit of behind the scenes of the level of
complexity we go in our Pro courses so
if you haven't checked them out yet
that's great this video is about react
but after you watch this free video on
YouTube you might want to learn nextjs
server actions and all of the great
stuff that it offers so add yourself a
to-do after you're done with this video
check out JS Mastery Pro but with that
said let's start sketching the complex
architecture of our snapgram application
we obviously have posts saves and users
so let's go ahead and create all of that
as simple rectangles here we're going to
have our users we're also going to have
our posts and finally we're going to
have our saves which are three different
collections now it's obvious that we're
creating a many toone relationship
between our user called a Creator and
our posts so this means that one user
can have multiple posts so let's just
create this relationship that's from
both
sides and we can do something like this
where we're going to Simply duplicate
this right here indicating that one user
can have or can create two different
posts so that's going to work like this
and then an important thing here is is
on deleting a document we must set null
as this is going to set the document ID
as null in all related documents meaning
it doesn't exist so let's click
create and it's possible that something
like this happens but don't worry just
go to
databases select your database and then
you can see your collections here
specifically we're working with users
and then attributes and you can see here
that now we have a relationship with
posts
and also that same attribute should be
within post as well because that's the
relationship so now let's create a
second attribute under posts which is
also going to be a relationship
attribute it's going to be a two-way
relationship related to users one more
time but this time not who created it
rather who liked it so we're going to
say likes so it's going to be likes here
we're going to say liked so who liked it
and then relation is going to be many to
many because many users can like many
different posts and then on deletion we
also want to set the same set n and
click create there we go and now we can
slowly start thinking about which
attributes are posts are going to have
so right here we can make this a bit
smaller and make it a bit simpler to
read let's do something like an
attribute which is going to be Creator
we know that each Post in this case has
to have a Creator and we know that a
user is going to have a post attribute
so let's do something like this
attributes this is going to help us when
creating a database or rather not
because this is going to help us
understand our database
structure usually you would have to
create all of this within your
application but now aight actually
creates the relationships for us which
is super handy and the second attribute
we have added is going to be likes so
the post is going to have likes and then
users are going to have liked so which
posts have they liked let's move forward
let's create a next attribute for our
post and that's going to be a string
this time the attribute key is going to
be a caption the size is going to be
2200 this was a default size for an
Instagram post so that's where we took
it 2,200 characters default is not going
to be anything and you can click create
we're going to also need tags attribute
so let's go ahead and create a new one
of a type string that's going to be
called Tags it's going to be 2200 as
well and it's going to be an array of
tags pretty
interesting then we're going to need an
image URL so let's create a new URL type
yeah there's a special type for the URL
which is going to be called image URL
and then it's going to be required and
click create we're going to also need an
image ID attribute which is going to be
of a type string this is needed if
somebody wants to delete a post so we
can say image
ID of a size 2200 again feel free to
choose whatever you want here and it's
going to be
required we need a location attribute as
well of a type string so let's say
location size is going to be
and this is more or less it these are
all the attributes that we need for our
post so what we can do is instead of
just typing them out we can go ahead and
screenshot what we have here on Windows
I usually use command shift s and then
you can simply select it like this
there's a similar shortcut on Mac OS as
well so let's take it and let's put it
right here within our fig Jam so it's
really easy to understand what
properties each one of our posts has
there we go now we even know the type
this is going to be helpful later on
once we dive into the further
architecture of our application now that
we have all the attributes we can go to
the indexes tab of our posts and this is
where aite allows you to do automatic
searching of your collections so click
create index you can call it caption the
index type is going to be full text the
attribute is going to be caption and the
order is going to be descending this is
phenomenal essentially you have built-in
search and filtering this is going to
allow us to automatically search for
different posts based off of caption so
let's click
create now we want to go to the users
collection and also start creating new
attributes so go to attributes you can
see that we already have liked and posts
let's create a new one of a type string
that's going to be name
we can enter the same size as before and
click
create we're going to also need a
username for our user so let's say
attribute is going to be username it's
going to be 2200 and we can click
create we also need an account ID so
let's create a new string of account ID
of
2200 let's make it required and let's
click
create our user is is also going to have
an email so let's select an email type
call it an
email make it required and click create
our user can also add a bit of info
about themselves so let's create a new
string property called bio and here they
can add their biography let's click
create finally we need to create an
image ID attribute of type string so
that's going to be image ID of the same
size and this is needed for deleting the
profile images when changing the profile
image let's click
create we also need the image URL
attribute this is going to be of a type
URL so let's say image URL
required and
create and this is it we immediately
have all of the attributes that belong
to our user what we can do is also
screenshot
it and add it to our fig Jam there we go
I'm just going to make it the same
size and we can put it right here below
users
collection there we go it's pretty handy
to know the full structure especially as
the app grows and finally the saves
collection is remaining so let's go back
to our upright go to saves
attributes and we need to create a user
attribute which is going to be of a type
relationship
so it's going to be a two-way
relationship between users where it's
going to say user and it's going to say
save so we need to know which user saved
which post it's going to be a many toone
relationship because one user can save
many
posts and on delete we have to select
set now and let's click
create and also we need to create a post
attribute so we know which post was
saved so we can create a new
relationship and we can create a two-way
relationship between
posts we can call it post and save make
sure you call these attributes exactly
the same as I'm calling them here that's
necessary for the application to work
and then we can do a many to
one and set now and click
create so now we can copy these one more
time and we can add them right here
below the
saves and there we go so now we can see
that saves actually kind of comes in
between of some of the posts so here we
can make this a bit
smaller and we can Define that a user
can save a specific post so it's going
to go something like this saves and then
we can go to a specific
post users can create posts but users
can also save the posts that they like
pretty cool right and then these are the
attribute of the save so this is our
current structure we'll be returning
back to this fig jam and whenever we
need to explain something in more detail
that's exactly what I'm going to do in a
visual manner if you'd like me to add
more visuals to our videos just let me
know for now I've been only doing this
in our Pro courses because we have so
much more time to cover things in depth
in videos the time is limited but still
I'll try to make them as detailed as
possible finally now that we've created
our collections our database is ready
this took some time but I mean it's
pretty crazy really soon we now have a
complete authentication system where we
can add users not only that but now we
can add them to our database as well in
the database we have our collections
with complete attributes so we know the
structure of each one of our Elements
which we can see right here and then we
also have relationships between them and
we also have storage so we can upload
images to our application I mean ight
Cloud really does everything you wanted
to do in this case now the last thing we
need to do is go to database and then
copy the IDS right here of these
collections so let's copy the
saves go back here and we can say
something like vorea right
uncore saves uncore collection uncore ID
it's a long name I know but it's better
to be safe than sorry and finally we can
duplicate this two more times we're
going to save saves collection ID we're
going to have post collection ID and
we're going to have a user collection ID
as
well so for the Post we can copy it
right here don't mistakenly do the wrong
one and finally we can do the
users there we go so now we have the
ight URL the project ID the database ID
storage ID user collection ID post
collection ID and the saves ID in case
you didn't copy the project ID before
it's right here within the overview
database is right here storage is right
here here everything is so easy to
find now we can make use of these
variables by going back not to our
signup form but rather to our config
right here we're initializing all of
these Services here but we're not yet
properly setting them up and we can do
that by having the URL the project ID we
also need a database ID which is going
to be
import. meta env. vorea _ database ID we
also need to get a storage ID which is
going to be import. meta env.
vorea rightor
storage
ID we also have to have all the
collections so we can say user
collection ID is import. meta
do. vorea rightor user collection ID
post collection ID is going to be
import. meta env. Vore aight _ postore
collection _ ID and finally saves
collection ID which is going to be
importa env. Vore aprite uncore saves
uncore
collection uncore ID and with that we
have everything we need to start
utilizing these services that aright
provides out of the box so back in our
code we can exit our EnV local we can
exit our config as well and before we go
into our signup form and finalize what
this function does on the front end
let's go ahead and implement it on the
back end or rather let's utilize all of
these services that aite provides so I'm
going to add aight right here to the top
and and I'm going to pin it this is a
cool Chrome feature you can have
something pinned now with that done
let's go ahead and go into the aite API
and so far we have only created an
account which then added it right here
to our a but that's not enough our user
has to have relations to the post it
creates which means that we need to have
it in our database so right now within
our database we don't yet have a user so
that's going to be our next goal to add
a user to our off but also to create the
user's document in the database so how
are we going to do it well let me show
you we can go right here below create
account and we can check if we get
anything back from it and if we don't so
if there's no new account in that case
we want to throw a new error we can do
it just like so throw error then moving
down we can create a new Avatar URL by
saying const Avatar URL is equal to
avatars do get
initials now where are we getting these
avatars from well that's something we
have to import from aight so you can
double click it press control space and
then import from that/ config if you
remember this is going to be one of
these services that aight provides
account databases storage avatars and
client so now we're we're using avatar.
get initials and we want to get the
initials from user.name once we have the
Avatar URL we can create a new user but
this time not a new account rather a
complete new user in the database by
saying a wait save user to DB just like
so but the main question is where is
this function coming from and the answer
is it's a function that we are going to
Define our cells so right below this
function create new user we can create a
new function export async function save
user to DB this function is going to
accept the user as a parameter and we
can immediately destructure some of the
values from that user and then open up a
new function block we can destructure
the account
ID which is going to be of a type string
we can destructure the email which is
going to be of a type string as well we
can destructure the name of a type
string we can destructure the image URL
of a type URL and we can destructure the
username which is going to be optional
and it's going to be of a type string as
well and how do we know we're getting
this well we can pass it right here when
we call that function we can pass an
object that's going to have all of these
properties an account ID equal to new
account
and then dot dollar sign ID that's how
app write stores IDs we can pass a name
equal to new
account. name we can pass an email equal
to new account. email we can pass a
username equal to new account. username
or rather this username is not going to
be within a new account because we're
not passing it initially but we are
passing it right here when saving the
user in the database and that's coming
from our form we have a field here
called username so instead we're going
to say
user.
username and finally we need to pass the
image URL of a type Avatar URL which
we're also passing above now we have
this new user which is equal to the
function call of our save user to DB and
then instead of returning a new account
we can return a new user which means
that our create user account function is
now done but of course it's dependent on
the save user to DB function so let's
collapse this and let's focus on the
save user to DB remember above we're
only using the O functionalities where
we're doing authentication but now we
want to save it so for the first time in
this app we're going to save a document
to app right database let's open up a
new try and catch Block in the error we
can simply console.log the
error in the try we can say const new
user is equal to await
databases. create document one more time
where is databases coming from try to
think about it it's coming fromc config
because we're utilizing what we
configured not that long ago and now we
have to pass what want to create so
we're going to pass the ight config do
database ID we need to know which
database are we modifying then we need
to pass the upright
config do user collection ID to know
which collection are we modifying we
need to pass the id. unique and we need
to pass the actual user object now
you're going to notice it's going to
start complaining about the app right
config which we have to import from
config that's exactly why we're
exporting it in the first place and then
we simply can return this new user and
now not only are we creating the user in
the authentication part which is right
here but we're also creating it in the
database so let's collapse it and would
you look at that with two simple
functions we actually have a connection
to the database so what's remaining is
to actually try to create our user so
let's go back to our signup up form
we're calling the create user account
and let's figure out what we want to
happen after the account gets created we
surely don't simply want to consel lock
the newly created user after the user is
created we want to check if there is no
new user means something went wrong in
that case we can simply return meaning
exit out of the function but we also
want to play with some additional
function functionality which is going to
be a small toast that appears or at
least we call it that way a toast that
we can check by going to our Shaden
documentation and then checking the
toast functionality a toast is a little
popup that you click and then it jumps
out it can be dark like it is here but
you can also have different examples
where it can be light meaning something
was good or a red one meaning something
was really really bad so let's go ahead
and implement this which is just going
to provide much more intuitive workflow
so we immediately know whether the user
was created or not now I'm going to show
you how to add this second shaten
component to our workflow we just have
to follow the
documentation first you run the
following command MPX Shad CN UI latest
add toast we can do that by opening the
second terminal we have here and simply
pasting it once again that's MPX shaty
and UI add latest add toast this is now
going to add it within our components
and then UI and you can see that the
toast and the toaster as well as the
used toast functionality were added
automatically don't worry you don't have
to modify these we just want to use them
within our code so how do we use them
well we can refer to the documentation
here we need to add it to the most outer
part of our application in this case
it's not going to be app layout TSX it's
going to be our app so let's go ahead
and copy this import let's go right here
to our app and let's import it right
here at the top we don't need this
entire part we simply need the import so
we're importing it from toaster UI
components and then we want to put it
right here at the end near the closing
main toaster like so this is going to
allow us to see the toaster and then we
have to use the used toast hook whenever
you want to call it so right here we can
import this go back to the signup form
we can import it right here at the
top we don't need the form description
as we're not using it and then where do
we want to use it we have to declare it
as a hook right here at the top cons
toast is equal to use toast and then we
call it whenever we want it to appear in
this case right here after the return so
we say toast schedule description this
is it but of course we want our toes to
say something different so we can just
give it a title no need for a
description that's going to look
something like this title is sign up
failed please try again as simple as it
gets now in this case let's be
optimistic we're not going to test our
application or our function failing we
want to test the toast if everything
works
so what do we want to do we want to sign
our user into a session that's the next
step so we can say con session is equal
to
await sign in account okay and this is
another function that we have to call
that will soon Implement for now let's
comment and out and let me tell you
about something more important in this
course you'll also learn how to use
react query recently renamed to 10stack
query as they started supporting view
spelt solid and more but in our hearts
it's still called react query it's going
to allow us to do a lot of things right
out of the box it's going to be simple
and familiar but more importantly it
will allow us to Cache the data we're
fetching from the server it also has
Auto ref fetching server side rendering
support pation out of the box mutations
meaning changes to the server data
infinite scrolling which we're going to
use and Implement in this video and
there are so many more reasons to use
react query in your react applications
and in this video I'll teach you how to
use it from scratch so what do we need
to do to get started with react query
and using it alongside aite well we can
go right here to our lib and then next
to aight we can also add a new folder
called react D query
within here we can create a new file
called queries and
mutations. TS within here we're going to
import a couple of things we'll use from
react query but of course first we have
to install it so that's going to be at
10stack SL react dqu so let's copy this
open up our terminal and say mpm install
at tanack SL react query press enter and
soon enough it will be installed it's a
pretty lightweight Library once it's
installed we're going to import use
Query and queries are for fetching the
data use mutation mutations are for
modifying the data use Query
client as well as use infinite
query these are all the things we'll use
from react
query and once again the reason why
we're using it is to simplify data
fetching and mutation while getting all
the benefits such as caching infinite
scroll and more out of the box now what
you want to do here is you want to
export our first mutation so we can say
export const use create user account
mutation it's a long name I know but we
try to make them as meaningful as
possible it's an arrow function that
returns a call to use
mutation that then gets an object in and
then we want to pass the mutation
function so what are we actually doing
and in this case it's going to be an
arrow function that's going to return a
call to our create user account function
that we have created not that long ago
within
upright SL
API and it's going to get the user right
here as its first and only parameter and
that user is coming right here through
the function which is going to be of a
type I new user which we can import from
types so essentially what we've done is
we've initialized a new mutation
function so that now react query also
knows what we are doing now we can use
this use create user account mutation
within our signup form and you might
have seen this right here I was testing
that but let's create it from scratch
right here at the top we can do it even
above the form we can say const get
something an object out of it and call a
use create user account mutation just
like so as a hook we can immediately
import it from
addlib SL react query forqueries and
mutations there we
go and now what do we get back well we
get back mutate a
sync as well as is loading the mutate
async if I can spell it properly is the
actual function that we're calling right
here in this case it is the create user
account function that we have created
not that long ago that creates the user
in the authentication and also saves the
user in the database so now we're
calling that as a hook and it's giving
us this mutate async function but we can
rename it so we know what it means this
is going to create a new user account so
we can say create user account so this
syntax simply renames this mutate
function into create user account and we
can also rename is loading to is
creating user so it makes more sense and
we no longer need this fake is loading
right here so we can remove it and we
can immediately use is creating user
right here at the bottom there we go
that's our new is loading so react query
provides this out of the box as well now
right now it says is loading is not
defined or does not exist but don't
worry we're going to fix this soon for
now it's important that we have this
create user account which we can call
and we no longer need to use it directly
from aight because this mutation is
actually calling create user account
from aight for us it's kind of a level
in between the app right in our front
end to ensure that we have easier time
fetching data on react and querying and
mutating the data as well as caching it
so now we have this and we're calling
the create user account as we were
before but now this is a mutation from
react query now we can also do a session
which is the sign in account which is
going to be yet another mutation so
let's go to our mutations right here and
we can create another one just by
duplicating this one below we can call
it use sign in account mutation so use
sign in account and now that I think
about it we don't have to add mutation
at the end of every single one so we can
simply fix this right here and modify it
right here at the top as well as in the
import so now if we go back we have the
use signin account and here what we want
to do is have a mutation function that's
going to get the user but in this case
the user is going to be just the email
of a type string as well as a password
of a type
string we can put this in a new line so
it makes a bit more sense and now of
course we're not going to call the same
function once again which is the create
user account in this case we're going to
call a sign in account and we want to
pass the user and this sign in account
will create in aide so let's go to aite
API we now have create user account save
user to
DB but right below it we're going to
export async function sign in account
that's going to get the user which is
going to have a email of a type string
as well as a password of a type string
as well and then it's going to have a
try and catch block
here we can simply kolck the error and
in the try we can create a new email
session by saying cons session is equal
to await account. create session and
again this is another utility provided
to us by aight it's create email session
to which we have to pass user. email as
well as the password by saying user.
password and then we can return this
session so once again we have created an
App function that's then getting
utilized by react query and we can
import it right here from aight API so
now this one is for creating the user
and this one is for signing into the
account and now we can repeat this with
the other hook that we have right here
in our signup form we can say const we
get a mutate
async which is going to be equal to a
function of sign in account and we get
is loading which is equal to is signing
in and once we get that we can say
that's equal to use sign in account
which we have to import from react query
queries and mutations and now we can use
this function right here await sign in
account to which we have to pass the
email which is going to be values. mail
right here and then password which is
going to be values. password and all of
this is coming from our form once we
have that we can check if session exists
by saying if no session we want to
return a new toast saying sign in failed
please try again and bear with me I know
this is taking some time but
authentication and creating user
accounts is one of the most complicated
parts of every single application now
after we have the session we have to
store that session in our react context
at all times we need to know that we
have a logged in user so for that reason
we can create a new folder right here
within the source which is going to be
called
context within the context we can create
a new file called oth context.
TSX there we can run
RFC and we'll need to import some
utilities for creating context from
react such as create context use context
use use effect as well as use State now
we need to Define how an empty user is
going to look like so we can say export
const initial uncore user is equal to an
object where the ID is equal to an empty
string name is equal to an empty string
username is equal to an empty string
email is again an empty string as well
image URL is an empty string and and a
bio is also an empty string so
everything is
empty after that we have to declare the
initial of state so we can say initial
undor state is equal to an object where
the user is equal to the initial user is
loading is set to false is authenticated
is by default set to false and then
we're going to also have the function to
set the authenticated user so set user
is equal to a function set is
authenticated this is for setting up a
Boolean value which is also going to be
a function and then we're going to have
a check off user which is going to be an
async function that's going to return
either a false or a true which is a
Boolean value just like so why we have
this to know whether we have a logged in
user at all times and now we can declare
our context but by saying const O
context is equal to create context we
can Define the type of that context by
providing this syntax and then
referencing the I context type which is
coming from addtype if you look into
this this is simply declaring the types
of everything we have now
discussed and finally we need to set it
to the initial State now instead of
calling this component o context we can
call it o
provider because that's going to wrap
our entire app and provide the access to
the context every context needs to have
children because it wraps the entire app
and then displays whatever is within it
we can also Define the type of children
to be equal to a react. node and I
believe it's called react node so we
have to add that here so now what do we
do right here within it well we want to
define the state of this user so that's
going to be us use State snippet called
user set user as well and at the start
it's going to be equal to the initial
user variable that we have declared
before and we can also give it a context
or a type of I user which we can import
from types so this is just so our
typescript knows exactly how our user is
going to look like we're going to also
need States for loading so we can say
use state is loading set is is loading
so we can write here declare that and
then at the start it's going to be false
and we can repeat this as well for
another one use
state which is going to be is
authenticated set is authenticated at
the start set to false because we don't
yet have users that are logged in what
are we going to do then well we're going
to wrap everything in our o context
that's going to look like this of
context. provider and we need to pass it
the value so the value will be equal to
value and we can declare what we're
passing right here on the top by saying
const value is equal to an object that's
going to have the user the set user
function which we will declare soon it's
also going to have the is loading it's
going to have the is
authenticated it will have the set is
authenticated as well and it's going to
have a function called check o user
which we can Define right here const
check o user is equal to a function
right here and now we're passing that
value to our provider also we need to
render the children within it right here
now of course the value is going to
complain because there's going to be a
mismatch between the types but we'll
solve that really soon once we utilize
the check off user function so what is
this function going to do well it's
going to be an async function that's
going to have a try and catch Block in
the catch we can simply say console. log
error and we can return a false meaning
user is not authenticated we can also
have a finally clause which is going to
set is loading to false meaning we're
done with loading but in the try we'll
actually try to get to the currently
logged in user account so we can say
const current account is equal to await
get current user and this is a function
will create directly within aite so
let's go to aite API that's going to be
right here and let's go below the sign
in account export async function get
current user and we can open up a try
and catch block block as we always do in
the catch simply console.log the error
and here we can say const current
account is equal to await account. getet
and then we can check if that current
account doesn't exist we can simply
throw a new error but if it does exist
we can try to retrieve that current
account by saying const current user is
equal to a wait datab
bases. list documents so here we need to
pass the database ID from which we want
to read The Collection ID from which we
want to read and then the query of what
we're trying to fetch so we need to get
a list of all user documents in a given
collection first we need to pass the
aite
config database ID then we need to pass
the app config do user collection ID and
then we need to pass what we're trying
to fetch which is a query of a type
array so we can say
query. equal we want to get the account
ID and we want to get only the current
account do dollar sign ID and this query
is coming from aight so we can import it
at the top finally we can do another
check saying if there's no current
account or current user this time we're
going to throw an error but if we have
it we can return a current
user. documents
zero there we go so now we have the get
current user function which we can now
use within our OD context by simply
importing it from lib ight API so here
now we check if the current account
exists in that case we want to set our
user so we can say set user and then we
set the ID to be equal to the current
account dollar sign ID the name to be
current
accountname username to be equal to
current account.
username email to be equal to current
account. email image URL to be equal to
current account dot that's going to be
image URL and then bio to be equal to
current account. bio of course what you
could have done is you could have
destructured all of these values from
the current account right here by using
the destructuring assignment and then
pasting them here you also need to add
commas to the
end and if you did that you can also put
it all in one line as it's not taking
too much
space and now you don't have to mention
current account every single time so
it's going to look a bit cleaner like
this and for other properties you don't
even have to say what it is if the name
is the same which in all of these cases
is so you can simply keep the key name
here since we no longer have access to
the entire current account we can just
refer to the
ID and then all of this also fits in one
line so we can put it in one line like
so this is in my opinion a bit easier to
understand what we're doing but we have
to be careful and typescript comes in
really handy here if I wasn't using
typescript I would do it exactly like
this I would destructure everything and
get the values but if you read this in
typescript it's going to say property
dollar sign ID as well as all the other
ones do not exist on type document or
undefined so if you look into the get
current user you can notice that here
it's great it's returning all of these
values but in the catch it's not
returning anything so if this function
fails then these values will be
undefined and and they'll cause an error
so in this case to make our application
less error prone I would actually get
back a bit and I wouldn't D structure
the value although it's taking a bit
more space and maybe includes a bit more
words I would still keep it like this
sometimes more words is not bad if your
application is more robust finally if we
get to here once we set our user we can
also set the authenticated status to
true and return true as well if we
outside of this block we're going to
return
false and this is our check off user
function now this has to be called
whenever we reload our page and for that
we have to use the use effect so we can
define a new use effect hook that's
going to have a function like so and a
dependency array like this empty meaning
it's only going to be called whenever
the app reloads here we can look into
our local storage so we can say if local
storage. get item upright called it
cookie
foldback is triple equal to a string of
an empty array or it's a local storage.
getet item cookie fullback is equal to
null in that case we simply want to
navigate the user back to the sign-in
screen so in that case we can import a
new hook at the top import use
navigate which is coming from react
router Dom and we need to initialize it
right here at the top by saying cons
navigate is equal to use navigate and
now we can call it navigate to SL in and
I notied that I didn't close the local
storage. getet item so here I'm going to
close it and this is how it's supposed
to look like finally whenever we reload
the page we want to recall the check o
user function we have created above so
now we have our use effect we have our
check off user we're passing all of
these as values and we're wrapping our
entire application with all of these
values so that at any point in time we
completely understand whether our user
is logged in or not finally we can also
export right here at the bottom export
const use user context this is going to
make it simple for us to call this
context every time which is a function
call to use context and then we pass in
the O context great so now we have this
phenomenal context and I notice that
here it says o provider which is not
really used we have to export it right
here export default o provider not o
context and I want to point your
attention to something this is a complex
app the files are also complex there's a
lot of logic Happening Here and although
I try to explain everything to the best
of my ability it's possible that either
I or maybe you miss something it's easy
to make a typo right so test your
application thoroughly we're going to
test it together after we're done with
this authentication and if something
doesn't work the complete GitHub
repository is going to be down in the
description so simply refer to all the
finished files and simply override the
things you have so far to ensure that
everything is good and if you're still
having some errors or disc Community
Link is going to be down and we have a
forum specifically for this video for
everybody to assist you with the
problems you're having so with that said
let's now utilize this odd context
within our signup form right here we can
say const is logged in is equal to a
wait check off user which we can import
from our context so right here we can
say const check off user as well as well
as is loading which we can rename to is
user loading is equal to use user
context like so and we can import it
from use user context context o context
there we go so now we're calling it and
we're getting the Boolean value back is
logged in finally what we want to do is
if is logged in in that case we want to
call the form. reset so we want to reset
the form and we want to call that same
navigate remember from react router so
that's going to be link but also use
navigate and we Define it right here
cons navigate is equal to use
navigate and now we want to navigate to
the homepage because we are successfully
logged in so we can say
navigate to forward slash
else if we're not successfully logged in
we can again show a toast saying sign up
failed please try again and we can
immediately return it and this is our
onsubmit function a lot of things were
happening in the meantime we worked out
our database we worked out our react
query ight we did everything also we
created contact in the meantime so a lot
of stuff has happened let's go ahead and
test it out so we can go back through
application I'm sure something's going
to be broken so let's go to
inspect console and let's reload the
page as you can see it's saying that we
have an
error in the signup form saying that
there's no query client set use Query
client provider to set one the reason
why we're getting this error is because
we didn't actually utilize our o nor our
react query in our app with we simply
wrote some code in some files but to
actually utilize it we have to go way
back to our source main. TSX and we have
to wrap our app with all of these
providers so first let's wrap it with
the O provider which is coming fromc
context o context and then we can put
our app right here within it and
indented properly this is the context we
have created but with react query we
also have to create our own context so
let's go into lib react query and create
a query provider.
DSX here we have to do something similar
we've done with our own context by
running
rafc instead of a default export we can
simply use a named one export const
query provider we also get the children
right here because we need to show the
entire app within it which is going to
be of a type children react. react node
like so we can also just import react
node at the top that's going to be a bit
simpler so we can destructure react node
from react and now it's going to fit in
one line and then we need to
return query
client
provider like this that we can import
from t stack react
query it's going to have a client
property equal to query client which is
once again coming from T stack react
query so we can import it at the top and
I believe it should start with a
lowercase letter so it's a query client
like so and it's complaining right here
that's because we have to set up a new
instance of that query client by saying
const query client with a lowercase Q is
equal to new new query client that we
call like this and then we pass the
lowercase one right here and finally we
can render the children right here this
is similar to our own context we have
created before so now going back to our
main alongside wrapping it in the O
provider we can also wrap it in the
query
provider which is coming from lib react
query query
provider and we can put all of this
within it and in then it properly so now
we're properly wrapping our app with
everything we need and we can again
check the errors now the error is saying
that is creating user is not defined add
signup form so let's go to our signup
form and let's search for is creating
user that is creating user is coming
right here from our use create user
account so why would this is loading not
be there if it's actually saying that
it's not returning the is loading
property well this is coming from use
create user account and that is a
mutation from react query so let's go
ahead and check out our package
Json and would you look at that tanac
just recently changed its version to
version
5.0.0 and When developing these projects
for JSM they take a couple of weeks up
to a couple of months to create so it's
possible that our development version is
using an older version of react query
this is actually quite exciting for you
right now because we're going to do some
live debugging we're going to go over
the documentation of the new version and
I'm going to show you how you would deal
with this error if you're following a
video and something got outdated so the
first thing you have to do is go to the
library we're using and then go to the
docs in this this case we're wondering
about the loading so if I search for is
loading no nothing is here but if I
search for just loading itself we can
see displaying Global background
fetching loading State maybe that's
useful now we can see that this is for
Global fetching right but we want to see
maybe use is fetching no let's see if I
can find anything useful now no this is
not that useful let's see a quick start
here we can use the use mutation they
are creating everything we discussed in
this video creating a new query client
using that query client and using one
mutation exactly as we are but in this
case I don't see there're using the
loading so let's go a bit more in depth
into the overview and there we go here
the user query and it indeed is using
the is loading property but this is a
query and not a mutation we have to
differentiate the query from a mutation
mutation so maybe we want to read a bit
more about the mutation so let's go into
mutations and let's see how that
works so we can use a mutation and
apparently there is a mutation that is
loading also the is error and is
Success so let's compare the two con
mutation is equal to use mutation and
they use it directly right here within
the code oh this is interesting so
unlike queries mutations are typically
used to create update delete data or
perform side effects for this purpose
stack query exports a used mutation hook
but I just figured out I'm reading the
V4 docs we want to redirect to the
latest version oh there we go can you
see the difference mutation that is
pending and not is loading okay okay I
get it maybe they wanted to make a
change from the query so in the query
right here once we try to call it yeah
they're also calling it is pending so
kind of waiting for something not
loading but pending right okay okay I'm
going to give it to them but now if we
go back to our application and go back
here and simply use is pending instead
of is loading you can see it actually
works this is amazing so now if I save
the file and reload the page everything
seems good but it's saying is creating
user is not defined I think we called it
is creating account so let's simply copy
is creating account move all the way
down and then modify it and now we're
back to our sign in form which means we
were
redirected let's try to close and reload
okay no errors that's good but let's go
back to the sign up form that's what we
were working on this entire
time okay this is interesting so every
time we go back to sign up it redirects
us back to sign
in I'm guessing that's because it thinks
we have already created a user so what
we can do is just go back here go to the
application Tab and check our local
storage it seems to be empty as well as
the session storage so the question is
why are we getting
redirected the only place where this
could occur is the place that happens as
soon as we load the page do you know
such place I think that's going to be
our odd context here we have a use
effect and here we navigate to sign
in so right in here for now we're going
to comment out this second line and we
can put it right here above and save it
and remove this or sign if we do this
and now if we go to sign up you can see
it's no longer going to redirect us
everything is working and there we go go
we can finally see our signup screen
we've been working on for such a long
time but if you think about it we
weren't working on just the signup
screen we were working on everything
else we'll need for the entirety of our
application so now if we go back to our
signup form we know what needs to happen
after we successfully create an account
we're going to create a session add that
to the user context and then navigate to
the homepage so let's see if that works
let's try with something like the real
JSM we can also do that right here the
real JSM the email can be something like
let's do Adrien JSM mastery. proo and we
can choose a specific password and click
sign up it says loading and it
disappeared or no it didn't it actually
redirected us to the homepage which
right now is completely empty empty and
has the root layout after all this hard
work we should have implemented that
confetti screen to also pop up as this
was stuff what we've gotten here if
something didn't work for you definitely
make sure to refer to the codebase
what's also possible is that while you
were trying to log in maybe you use the
same email before so your user already
got created if that's the case try a
couple of different emails and usernames
and ensure that isn't the case but now
that we have successfully created our
user you can see that we have it right
here under a user collection no longer
is it just under o but also under
databases users and we have the real JSM
with the username account ID email and
everything else so this is
great this means that we have just added
a document in our database and also that
we have logged in our user so now if we
go back and reload the page you can
notice that we stay here because it
knows that the user is already logged in
but of course to completely finalize our
o we need to implement the login screen
as well so what we can do is right click
go to inspect go to the application tab
right here and then under local storage
you'll be able to see a cookie fullback
this was added by ight what you need to
do is just clear it this is going to
clear here our existing session and then
we can go back right here to OD
context and we can check if local
storage that get item cookie fback is
null in that case want to redirect back
to the sign in screen so now if we save
this you can see we're redirected to the
signin form so now let's try to
implement the sign in trust me to do it
it won't be as difficult as implementing
the sign up what we can do is copy
literally the entire sign up form
exactly as it is and then go to sign in
form and paste it right here first of
all rename it from sign up form right
here at the bottom to sign in form also
rename it right here at the top and now
there are couple of modifications we'll
have to make let's start from the top to
the bottom we'll be using the use user
context that's okay and we'll use the
use signin in this case we don't need
the use create account the form is only
going to accept the email and the
password not the name and the username
as well and we have to change this to
sign in validation so let's go to our
Zod which is right here under validation
index DS and we can duplicate this right
below rename it to sign in validation
and only contain the email and the
password we can remove the name and the
username then you can go back and
doubleclick this and press f2 this is
going to open up a rename window or you
can just simply press sign in and press
enter it's going to automatically change
all of the naming if this didn't work
for you simply exchange every time that
it says sign up to say sign in after
that we have our submit Handler we also
get the values but we can skip the user
creation process and only focus on the
session still the check-in is going to
be the same and everything else is going
to be exactly the same but we'll have to
modify our form instead of create a new
account we can say log in to your
account we can say something more
personal something like welcome back
please enter your
details then we don't have the first two
Fields so we can completely remove them
the only thing we do have is going to be
the email and the password so now if you
save this you can see it's no longer
going to be is creating account this
time it's going to be is user
loading and is that it we won't need
this rename right here and we won't need
use create account if we save this our
form is back and we also need to change
the last thing that it says right here
as well as the button it's going to say
sign in and then here we can say don't
have an
account in that case you can sign
up and then this is going to redirect to
sign up you see how simple that was and
there we go now if you click it you go
to sign up you go to login this is
looking great and now let's try to log
in with the account we have
created I'll use the same email and
password and click sign in this time it
doesn't seem to go through let's see why
that might be the case I'm going to go
to inspect and then I'm going to go to
console and reload the page I'll try to
enter my same email and password one
more time and click sign
in it almost seems like nothing is
happening so our submit button is
actually submitting the
form we don't need this is pending right
here and then we call the onsubmit
Handler which should sign us right in
and then if we are logged in it should
navigate to forward slash but in this
case for some reason it doesn't do it
I'll try to reload even if I reload
we're still here on square one but
that's okay let's figure it out together
let's see if we actually get right here
so let's try to
console.log is logged in and then we can
say console. log navigating I'm guessing
we're not getting to right here so I'm
going to save it and I'll enter my
details one more
time and press sign
in it's almost as if nothing happens
we're also not getting any toasts so
that's a bit suspicious let's add some
more conso locks a bit higher right here
let's conso loog
session and let's also cons log right
here at the top by saying
we're
in that's the whole point of coding
right getting stuck and getting past
these errors once again let's try it
together and once again absolutely
nothing happens here nor
here now it seems like this onsubmit
function is not actually getting cold
even though we have it right here under
form submit and the button should indeed
submit that form as it has the type of
submit so one thing I'll try to do is
just restart our application so go to
our terminal press contrl + C and then Y
and then simply run mpm run Dev one more
time it's a wild guess but sometimes who
know it might make things
work I'm going to make this a bit larger
so we can see it a bit
better let's make it so large so we can
see this nice image as well I'm going to
enter my email and the password and
click sign sign
in and once again no conso logs no
errors nothing is even in the network
tab right here so if you clean it and
click nothing is here it seems like this
form is not getting fired and I really
like it when this happens it exposes me
to you and it makes me think it makes me
want to resolve this together with you
watching this video so let's try to
figure it out together let's go all the
way to the top of the file and let's
let's see if everything is looking good
we have some imports from Hook form
react router Dom then we can divide our
internal Imports coming from components
right here we also have some more react
hook form rather this is this was react
ROM this is react hook form and then we
have something from lib validation this
is the signup
validation oh no wait this was supposed
to be sign in looks like it auto
imported it in the wrong way this right
here was supposed to be only sign in yes
because now we're talking about sign in
right here and not sign up actually
disallowed us from submitting the form
well I guess that's its job right so I'm
going to delete all of the conso logs
right
now and save the file there we
go and hope that it was just the wrong
import right here so now I'm going to
expand the entire app we can can see how
wonderful this signin is sign up as well
it's instantaneous moving between the
two and we can try to log in with the
account we have previously
created I'm going to enter my password
and click sign
in and we are on our homepage this is
phenomenal I know it took some time to
do this entire Au and everything else
but hey we're finally in and now we can
start focusing on our homepage so we can
close our sign in and the sign up and we
can go right here to Source root
pages and then homepage or rather we'll
have to do the root layout first because
that we're seeing but then soon enough
we'll move to the homage and the rest of
the content I know it took some time but
we laid out a strong foundation for
everything else we're about to build so
phenomenal job coming this far into the
video and now the exciting stuff stuff
begins let's get started with the root
layout the layout is going to play a
major role in turning our app from this
to this where we have the sidebar on the
left side the whole middle part for the
post and then the top creators on the
right and of course it's all fully
mobile responsive so as you scroll we
have this beautiful mobile UI so let's
get started with the root layout by
wrapping everything in a div that's
going to have a class name equal to w-
fold for full width and on medium
devices Flex now within here we'll have
a couple of components so let's go ahead
and create them we can do them within
the shared and we can create a new file
called top bar. TSX and run R efce
inside of there we can do a second one
called Left sidebar. TSX and run r fce
if we have a left one we're going to
also have a bottom bar so let's create a
bottom bar. TSX run
rafc and that's everything we need so
far so let's go back into our root
layout and let's use all of these
components so here we can put the top
bar at the top and just self close it
and import it by double clicking and
pressing control space then we're going
to have the left side bar immediately
below also you need to import it then
below it we're going to have a
section and this section is going to
have a class name equal to flex Flex D1
so it expands and then h- full for the
full height and within it we want to
render the outlet component this
component has to be imported from react
router Dom so outlet from react
router
Dom this is similar to what we have done
before for our off layout where this
Outlet actually lets us show what's
going to be on the homepage later on and
then below it we also want to render the
Bottom
bar there we go so now we have
everything we need right here if you
scroll all the way you'll see a bottom
bar there as well so now before we start
with the homepage let's start with these
individual Pages such as the top bar
since it's at the top this is going to
be a simple section so let's turn it
into a
section and it's going to have a class
name equal to Top
Bar within it we can create a div and
that div is going to have a class name
equal to flex
between padding y of four meaning top
and bottom and padding X meaning left
and right of five
right here we can render a link and that
link is going to point to the homepage
it's also going to have a class name
equal to flex Gap D3 and items Das
Center because it needs to Center our
image so first let's import this link
from react router Dom by saying import
link from react router
Dom and then this image is is going to
have a source equal to SL
assets
slimes SL logo. SVG once we save it you
can see snapgram appear on top let's
also give it an Al tag off logo a width
of 130 pixels and a height of 325 pixels
there we go now below the link still
within this div we want to do another
div that's going to have a class name
equal to flex and a gap of
four within it we can create a button
and this is going to be a reusable
button component of course coming from
Shad CN meaning from UI button within
the button we can render the image that
has a source equal to for SL assets SL
ions SL log out. SVG and the alt tag can
be log out as
well there we go you can see it on there
and then we also need to have a variant
equal to ghost that's an interesting one
we can give it a class name equal to
Shad button ghost and we can give it an
onclick
property so that's going to be right
here on click and we simply want to call
the sign out functionality now this sign
out is something we also have to Define
so we'll have to go to our queries
that's going to be within lib react
query and then queries and mutations and
right here we'll have to copy the Ed
sign in account duplicate it right below
and call it use sign out account and we
simply want to use a mutation or return
a mutation that doesn't have to get any
properties in but it has to call the
sign out account function so we can do
it just like so but of course this has
to come from aight so in the aight we'll
have to create a new function like we
have sign in account we'll also have to
have another export async
function sign out
account we can open up a new try and
catch block consol log the error right
here and then on try we can say con
session is equal to await account.
delete session and then we need to pass
current this is so cool so this was
provided to us by app right so we can
delete the session and then we can
return deleted
session now we have this sign out
account within queries and mutations we
can import it from app right and we
don't have to call it because it's going
to be self calling function or rather
just a function declaration here and
then going back to the top bar we can
Define that mutation we can do that by
going here to the top and saying const
mutate in this case it's going to sign
out we're going to get the is Success
variable as well and that's going to be
equal to use sign out account coming
from lib react query queries and
mutations and now we can call the sign
now on click and we can also make it a
an actual function like so and call it
here there we go so now we can see the
log out button as well here we also want
to add a use effect so we can say use
effect and if we have successfully
navigated so if is Success then we want
to use the navigate so right here we can
import const so at the top we can import
use navigate from react Rd we can
declare it as a function con navigate is
equal to use navigate and then if is
Success we can say navigate Z this is
going to navigate us to the sign up or
the signin screen and we also need to
add the dependency array or we can check
for is success and then import use
effect from react so the task we can
import use effect coming
from
react there we go finally we can also
add a profile photo that we can click to
go to our profile so right below the
button we can add a link that's going to
have a two and then we want to go to for
SL profile but now how do we get the ID
of the currently logged in user well
thankfully we have created our context
so right here at the top we can say
const user is equal to use user context
which we have to import from atcontext
SLO context and then right here we can
use dollar sign and curly braces and
then say user.
ID we can also give this link a class
name equal to flex Center Gap 3 and
write within the link we can render an
image that's going to have a source
equal to either user. image URL or we
can use some kind of a placeholder just
to be safe so that's for/ assets SL
imagesprofile dplace holder.
SVG if we save it we can see our huge
TR soon enough we'll figure out why TR I
don't think I've called myself something
with t are oh I have it's the real JSM
so that's why it has those initials alt
is going to be profile and then class
name is going to be
h-8 for height
w-8 and then Tailwind allows us to make
it rounded really easily by saying
rounded Das full and now we have our top
bar you might have been wondering where
is this stop bar right on the desktop we
don't have it but we're immediately
building this application so it works
well not well so it works phenomenally
on mobile devices so that's why here in
Mobile this phenomenal top bar appears
that's great and now we also have the
log out functionality so if we click it
actually redirects back and we can
immediately jump back in everything is
working flawlessly so far the top bar is
done let's focus on the left sidebar
next here is where we're going to have
all of the links that we have right
here to get started with the left
sidebar we'll have to keep our window
expanded so we can see it on the desktop
mode which we can see right here I guess
it's tablet as well and then we can move
our code just a bit to the left there we
go so let's start with creating a nav
because yeah even though it's a sidebar
it is a navigation bar we can give it a
class name equal to left sidebar we can
save it and go back and now here you can
see immediately that this shifted the
homepage a bit to the right within the
nav let's create a div that's going to
have a class name equal to flex flex-all
as the elements are going to appear one
on top of another and then a gap of 11
to create some space right within that
div we're going to have our first link
and this is going to be the same link as
on mobile so we can go back to our top
bar and we can copy this entire link
right here and paste it in the left side
bar we of course need to import Link at
the top from react router Dom so we can
say link and that's coming from react
router
Dom if we save it it's looking good but
we can modify the width to 170 and the
height to
36 there we go that looks a bit better
for the sidebar right below it we can
show our link to the profile
page so let's go below the link and then
create another link this link is going
to point to forward slash and it's going
to be as before a dynamic link to
forward SL profile not this what I just
typed but profile and then forward slash
the user ID right and we already know
where the user ID is coming from it's
going to be similar as with the top bar
so here we can IM immediately copy what
we have because in the sidebar we'll
also have to deal with the logout
functionality so we might as well copy
most of the things we have here on the
top as well as what we have defined in
the component so let's copy everything
from here and paste it in the left
sidebar on top just replacing the name
of the component to left sidebar there
we go now if we save this everything
still works we have the user ID D we can
give it a class name equal to flex
g-3 and items Das center right within it
we can show an image that's going to
have a source equal to user. image URL
or SL assets SL ions SL profile Das
placeholder.svg
there we go we have our huge the real
JSM let's give it an ALT tag of
profile as well as a class name equal to
age-14 width of 14 as well and rounded
Das full now next to this we also want
to show the name of the person that's
logged in because we have a bit more
space than on mobile so let's create a
div that's going to have a class name
equal to flex flex-all so it appears one
below another
and here we can do a P tag that's going
to have a class name equal to body- bold
here we can render user.name and that's
going to show the real JSM and right
below we can render another P
tag that's going to have a class name
equal to small- regular text-
light-3 and it's going to say
at and then dynamically user. username
if we save it now we can see this is
going to work but we can remove the
dollar sign there we go how cool it is
that we can immediately extract all of
this user information directly from the
user context that's what we've been
working on so hard while creating the
authentication so now we can simply use
it now going below we want to render the
sidebar links so let's move below this
link
and let's create a new UL an unordered
list that's going to have a class name
equal to flex
flex-all and a gap of six right here we
might as well render all the nav links
one by one by saying Link Link Link and
then duplicate this many many times of
course each link has to have a path it
has to have some content so it's going
to expand on many many lines right here
instead of that what we try to do as
good developers being more structured is
we can create something known as
constants file that's a special file and
folder right here above our context
still within the source so create a new
folder called
constants and then create a new
index.ts right within it here you can
Define some sidebar links just like so
it's going to be an array and then we
can say home anything else you want to
say you can add here since this is not
any logic but rather just static code
what we can do is in the description
Down Below in the GitHub gist you can
find the complete constants index.ts
file so copy it and paste it here you
can notice that this is mostly Bottom
bar links as well as sidebar links so
what this allows us to do is just jump
right into here and open up a dynamic
block of code and say sidebar links. map
where we get each individual link which
is of a type I nav link interface nav
link which we can import from at/ types
and then you can open up a new function
block also import sidebar links from ad
SLC constants here we can simply return
something known as a nav link and a nav
link is a component coming from react
router Dom so right right here on top we
can import link as well as a nav link
there we go so now going here each nav
link has to have a two property so where
are we going to in this case we're going
to link that route because each sidebar
link has a route an image URL and a
label so now we can also give it a class
name equal to left sidebar daslink
and as a matter of fact I think we need
to wrap this nav link with an Li because
An Li is a list item that has to go
between the uls so you can put the nav
link between the
Li and then the class name of left
sidebar link is actually going to go to
the LI since we're mapping over it we
also have to give it a key equal to
link. label now our nav link is going to
say something right and that something
is link
label so if we save it now you can see
all of these different labels let's
style it a bit further by giving it a
class name equal to flex gap of four
items Das Center and padding off four
there we go this gives us much more
space we can also render an image right
here next to the label by saying
IMG we can give it a source equal to
link. image URL alt is equal to link.
label and we can give it a class name
equal to group-
hover invert D white so this is just to
make the color work and there we go so
now if you hover over it you cannot see
it we're about to fix that but this is
looking good but on the final version of
our application you can see that we have
a currently active link so we can do
that here as well but how do we figure
out on which link are we on well we have
to use something known as a use location
so right here from react R Dom we can
also import use location which is a hook
and then we can declare it right here at
the top by saying const path
name is equal to use
location and now we can use that path
name right here in the sidebar links to
create a Boolean variable called is
active so const is active is equal to
and it's active if the path name is
equal to link. route based off of this
is active Boolean we can also change
some Styles so in this Li we can make it
Dynamic by turning it into a template
string like so and then we can say
if is
active then also render the BG primary
500 so if we save it you can see the
color changes now the last thing is also
to change the color of the icon so let's
change the image to be also dyamic
template string and if it is
active then we can call the invert white
so if I now save it we have to properly
spell it for this to
work it seems like we have one extra
brace so if we fix it there we go but if
we hover it's not yet fixed so let's see
what that is about let's try to properly
space it out so we can better see it
group hover invert white and then we
have if is active then also invert white
if we go here you can see that it works
really nicely it inverts but in this one
it doesn't that's interesting that's
because we have to make this a group so
this Li actually has to have a group
property so it knows it's grouped with
this so if we hover over this it
actually applies a group hover there we
go so now this is such a wonderful
sidebar the last thing we're missing is
the logout functionality so let's add
that right here below this ul and then
going one more time below the div here
we want to add a button and this button
is going to be only almost exactly the
same as in the top bar so we can just
copy this entire sign out
button and then paste it here if you do
that you can notice the icon appear but
here we have a bit more space so we can
also add the text that says log out and
let's also space this correctly so we
have a variant class name onclick and
then we have an image and then finally
below the image we can have a P tag
that's going to say log out out and we
can give it a class name equal to small
medium and LG base medium so if we save
it you can see log out and that
concludes our sidebar of course now if
you try clicking explore nothing's going
to happen because that route doesn't yet
exist so while we're here what do you
say that we implement the routing so
that everything we work so hard on
doesn't just disappear so to do that we
can now go back to our main or rather to
our app right here because that's where
we have the routing and we can Implement
all the other private
routes and trust me we're going to have
quite a few so let's create a new route
which is going to be a self-closing
component with a path of for SL explore
and it's going to render an element
that's going to be called I think you
can guess it explore there we go so now
we want to duplicate this many many
times below the second one is going to
be saved meaning all the saved posts
right here but we cannot now see it
because we broke it and that's going to
render saved then we have to have all
users which is going to go to all
users let's expand this just a
bit then we can have create post and
that's going to be create post we can
also have update Das poost and we need
to know the ID of the post we're
updating take care of these columns
right here that's going to be edit post
then we're going to have a specific post
details so that's going to be posts and
then the ID of that post so that's going
to be post
details and then we have a profile so
that's for/ profile
slid and we can also add this special
asterisk which means that everything
after the profile is also going to point
to that profile we can say profile and
finally we're going to have the update
Das profile
slid where we're going to render the
update
profile and with that said we now have
all of our routes the last thing we have
to do is create those pages within the
pages folder right here so let's create
them one by one that's going to be
starting from the
top all users. TSX where we can run
ource let's go to the next one that's
going to be create post. TSX and again
run
RFC after create post we're going to
have edit post. TSX where we're going to
create
rafc after that we're going to have
explore. TSX once again run
rce after that we're going to run post
details. TSX run
rce we're going to have our profile of
course TSX and run
RFC and we're going to also have our
saved for saved posts. TSX and run RFC
and we're going to also have the update
profile. TSX and we can run R afce so
now we have all of these Pages you can
close them by pressing control or
command W don't do that while you're in
your browser move to your Visual Studio
code because usually it would close your
tab and then you can close all of these
tabs and we can go to this index within
the pages and we can export all of these
components so that it's easier to import
them so let's duplicate this a few times
quite a few
actually and then we can export explore
from exlore we can also export
saved we can export create post we can
export
profile we can export update profile we
can export edit post we can export post
details
and we can export all
users right here as
well and I think we're going to use the
like post as well so let's add like
posts as well and we need to create the
component for liked posts. TSX and run
RFC now that we have created all of
these Pages within app you can
doubleclick each word press control or
command space and it's going to
automatically give you the import repeat
this procedure all seven or eight times
however many components we have so if
you do this you can see that they're all
getting imported from one line which is
pretty cool that's exactly why we needed
to export them whereas these components
are being imported in their own
individual lines so now if we save this
file and reload the page page you can
see the sidebar and you can see that it
says explore and it says home the URL
changes and what it says also changes so
now we have complete routing implemented
in our great application before we focus
on that central part we're going to
first focus on the bottom bar which is a
bit weird right where do we have a
bottom bar here well as with the top bar
it only happens on mobile devices I mean
how cool is this this is a special
native mobile like Bottom bar so you can
press your so you can navigate your app
with your thumb how cool is that so now
we're going to definitely stay in mobile
view we can return back to our root
layout and move to our Bottom bar as
that's going to be the component we're
going to implement next trust me it's
not going to be that complicated we'll
be able to use the majority of things we
have in the left sidebar to make it
happen so first of all let's create a
section and that section is going to
have a class name equal to bottom dasar
we can
import a link as well as use location
coming from
react router Dom and then we can
initialize that path name to know on
which page are we currently on so const
path name is equal to use
location now we can do something similar
to what we've done with the sidebar so
let's go into the sidebar and let's copy
all of these sidebar
links all the way until the
end and then paste it right here in the
bottom bar so essentially we are going
over now the side links this time but
Bottom bar links which you have to
import from at SL constants in this case
we don't need to provide the
interface and instead of a nav link
we're going to use a
link now if you save this already it's
looking okay but we can make it look
better instead of a left sidebar link
you can say Bottom bar link but in this
case we don't even need an l
everything is going to be in a link so
simply copy the key and the class name
from the LI remove it completely as well
as the ending tag and then add it
instead of the class name right here to
the
link there we go that's more like it
let's put this in a new line let's
remove the Bottom bar link I don't think
we'll need it in this case we just want
to apply a couple of class names if we
are active so if the current link is
active in that case we want to provide
it a BG primary 500 as well as a rounded
Das 10 pixels to make it just a bit
rounded and then usually it has to be
Flex Center so we Center the link see
how it changes on the bottom we want to
give it a flex call so it appears one on
top of another because on mobile we have
more vertical space than horizontal a
gap of one to create some space a
padding of two and and a transition this
is going to just make it animate slowly
once we hover finally we want to style
the image by just giving it on active
invert white and then instead of a link
label let's simply create a P tag that's
going to render the link
label but it's going to have a class
name equal to Tiny Das medium text-
light-2 so if we save it this is now
looking good but is it looking close to
the finished
version okay we're almost there the
icons have to be a bit smaller so we can
add a width of 16 and a height of 16 as
well and now I think we're there keep in
mind this automatically works as well so
we can now navigate on mobile devices
too this is pretty crazy and it also of
course works with a
sidebar this is great and I would want
to focus on the homepage so bad because
we've been waiting to implement this
beautiful homepage for a long time but
I'm sure that you're aware that we're
missing something before we dive into it
right and that something is create post
how can we see the homepage if we don't
yet have any posts so I'll have to keep
you waiting a bit longer until we do the
homepage we'll have to focus on create
post first so let's collapse this we
have a beautiful create post on mobile
as well we can close this the root
layout as well and we can move into
create post page as soon as we have this
we'll be ready to fetch those posts on
the homepage and display them so first
of all the layout and then the
functionality of creating and finally
reading those posts on the homepage once
again exciting stuff coming really soon
to start creating our create post page
we can wrap everything inside of a div
that div is going to have a class name
equal to flex and then Flex one so it
expands nicely let's go back to our
current website and let's add another
div that's inside of this existing div
that's going to have a class name equal
to common Das container as we're going
to reuse it a couple of times within
this div we can have another div and
this div is going to render an image
this image is going to have a source
equal to for slash assets SL icons SL
a-post
SVG it's also going to have a width of
36 and a height of 36 and it's going to
have an Al tag of ad that's because this
is going to be an icon to add a post
finally we can create an H2 right below
it that's going to say create
post there we go we can style it a bit
by giving it a class name equal to H3
dasb on medium devices
H2
dasb it's going to be text left as well
as w- full we want to style this out div
by giving it a class name equal to Max
dw- 5xl so really wide width we also
want to give it a flex
start so now it appears as a flex
container a gap of three to create some
space a justify Das start and a w-o for
full width and now we have our create
post similar to what we have here but
now as you can notice we start start
with something known as a form similar
to what we've done with our sign in and
the sign up a form with a couple of
fields a caption photos location and
tags so in this case we want to create
this as a new component it's going to be
called a post form so let's create a new
component within the components folder
and then not within shared but rather
within a new folder called forms finally
within the form we can create a post
form. TSX inside of which we can run
RFC now back in our create post we can
simply render the post form component
and import it from components form post
form there we go this now allows us to
dive into this form which we're going to
create as a reusable component so we can
reuse it later on in many different
places so how is our form going to look
like well it's going to be a typical
shaten form so immediately we can go
back here and search for our form and
then we can get our example we know how
form Fields look like we know that we
need to have a form schema as well and
then we need to define a form Define the
onsubmit and finally build out our form
so let's do so step by step first we can
import everything that we need from
here and paste it right here at the
top then we're going to define the form
as well as Define the onsubmit that's
going to be within the post form then we
need to import everything we need to
make her form
happen so we can put that right here and
finally we can Define the form within
our
application right
here now if we save this and go back
back you can see simple username form
but instead of a simple username let's
make it a bit more interesting our form
is going to have a class name not of
space Y8 but of
flex
flex-all gap of N
w-o and then maxw d5xl within it we have
a form field of
caption it's going to be a form item
with a form form label that's going to
have a class
name equal to Shad Das formore
label and it's going to say
caption instead of an input this is
going to be a text area so this is
another component that we have to
install so let's copy it let's go to our
second terminal and let's say MPX shaten
UI latest add text area with a lowercase
T and press enter once it is installed
we can simply import it from do/ UI text
area we won't be needing a form
description but to our form message we
can provide a class name equal to Shad
Das
formore message and we can also style
our text area by giving it a class
name equal to sh p- text area and
custom-
scrollbar now this is more like it we
can now duplicate this form field one
more time
below this time it's going to say
file it can say add photos right here as
the form label but this time it's not
going to be a text area it's going to be
our own component that we'll create
called file uploader so let's simply
call it like this and let's define it
within our components and then shared
called file uploader dtsx and we can run
RFC back in the post form we can import
it right here save it and we can see
file uploader soon we're going to make
that happen as well but for now let's
duplicate our form field one more time
below this time it's going to to say
location and it's going to render a form
label that's going to say add location
instead of a file uploader it's going to
render a regular input that's going to
have a type is equal to text and a class
name equal to Shad
input there we go if we save it we have
a location input and finally we can
duplicate this form field one more time
below for the last time we're going to
say tags we can say add tags and then in
parentheses
separated by Comma just like this so
people know what they have to do we can
end parentheses and then we can also
render an input it's also going to be of
a type text but this time we can give it
a
placeholder something like
art
expression and learn whatever right some
tags that we can add there we go if
we're doing a coding application it can
be
JS react and
nextjs there we go so if we save it this
looks great and finally we have to have
a button so below all of these form
fields we can create a new div inside of
that div we can have our button and
below it we're going to have another
button the first button is going to be
not of a type submit but of a type
button it's going to have a class name
equal to Shad button unor
dark4 and it's going to say not submit
but
cancel okay so we need to be able to
cancel the submit of the form let's put
this in multiple lines there we
go so this is one of our buttons and
then the second one will be submit it's
going to say submit it's going to have a
class name equal to Shad button primary
and wh space no wrap there we go now we
can style this div that's wrapping these
two buttons by giving it a class name
equal to flex Gap D4 items D Center and
justify Das end there we go now they're
nicely aligned at the end now the
majority of the UI is done
but let's go ahead and focus on the file
uploader that's one component that's
going to be one of the most important
components in our entire application we
are building a snapgram and you have to
snap some photos right and then upload
them so let's go ahead and Implement our
file uploader component to implement it
we'll use a package called react drop
zone that allows you to drop some things
in so let's install it by running mpm
install react d drop
zone and while it's getting installed
let's browse his docs if you Google
react Drop Zone this is the first thing
that's going to show up and here you can
see its
usage first we need to import react and
use call back from react as well as use
drop zone so let's do just that never
reinvent the wheel always just refer to
documentation when you can then we need
to get a function called on drop that we
can put right
here there we go and then our outer div
needs to include all the get root props
and the input needs to include the get
input props so let's copy this entire
div right
here there we go there are multiple ways
of doing it as you can see but for now
we're going to be happy with what we
have at least I hope let's save it and
it says drag and drop some files but we
can really see where to drag and drop
them so let's style this a bit further
let's give this div a class
name equal to flex Flex D Center
flex-all BG D dark D3 and rounded d excl
as well as cursor Das pointer so we know
it's clickable then let's make this
input a class name equal to cursor Das
pointer
so we know we can click it as well and
then let's create a new use state for a
file URL so right here at the top we can
say use state which is going to be equal
to use State snippet and let's call it
file
URL as well as set file URL at the start
equal to an empty string we can also
import use State coming from react right
here at the top use
State great so now instead of saying is
drag active let's rather check for is a
file URL there has it been uploaded if
it has been uploaded we can return some
kind of a div right here else if it
hasn't we can return something else so
let's create a new
div let's say test two and here let's
say a div that's go going to say test
one we can delete everything else so now
you can see test two meaning we don't
yet have a file URL so now let's create
this nice interface from which it's app
parent that we can actually upload the
files to do it we can give this div a
class name equal to
fileuploader dashbox and we can save it
within it we can create an image that's
going to have have a source equal to SL
assets SL ions SL file- upload.
SVG that's much better the width is
going to be about 96 and the height is
going to be about
77 finally we can give it an Al tag
equal to file upload below it we can
create a new
H3 that's going to say SVG PNG
JPEG and we can give it a class
name that's going to be equal to text-
light
D4 small regular and margin bottom of
six there we go now instead of making
this an H3 let's make this a P tag
because it's small and then Above This P
tag let's create an
H3 this H3 is going to say
drag photo here we can give it a class
name equal to base- medium as well as
text-
light-2 margin bottom of two and margin
top of six there we go that's more like
it and we can also add a button in case
people want to click and not drag so we
can add a button that's going to say
select from
computer we can then import this from UI
button and give it a class name equal to
Shad
button undor
dark4 and save it there we go this is
more like it now the last thing we have
to do is implement the
functionality so how are we going to
figure out when something gets uploaded
well in this case we have the get root
props and get input props we won't be
needing is drag active from use Drop
Zone on drop
to the second parameter to this used
drop zone is going to be what do we
accept so we can say accept an object of
image everything and we can Define that
right here that's going to be an array
of
PNG we can also do a JPEG and we can
also do a DOT jpeg like this also maybe
an SVG who knows why not there we go so
now we're defining what can we use but
now let's define a function on drop what
happens once we actually drop some files
well let's also create another use state
right here and this use state is going
to be for the file itself so file and
then set file at the start equal to an
empty array because we can pass multiple
files and the file URL is of course only
the URL of the file we pass so what do
we do once we drop it we set file to be
equal to accepted files and then as
props to this component we're going to
pass two additional things so going back
to our post form Finding where we have
the file uploader we can pass two things
we can pass the field
change and we can also pass the media
URL the field change is coming right
here from the field of this form field
so that's going to be field.on
change but the media URL how do we know
what is the URL of this media well
that's going to be coming through props
so right here we can say the post form
is going to accept a post but this is
only if we're updating it right if we're
updating the post then we need to have
an existing post otherwise we don't have
anything so in this case if we do have a
post then we can pass post question
mark. image
URL and now we can dive into the file
uploader and accept those props so we're
getting the field change as well as
media URL and for now we can put these
as a type any and alongside setting the
file we can also set field change like
this to accepted files and then we can
set file URL to be equal to
URL dot create object URL and then we
pass in the accepted files zero so the
first file that we have there and that's
going to give us the URL as the Callback
we want to add the file right here here
we need to define the type and this type
has already been defined by react drop
zone so we just need to import it at the
top by saying file with path
and now we can say this is of a type
right here file with
path we can also Define these two props
by saying file
uploader props and then we can Define
this interface or the type right above
by saying type file uploader props is
equal
to we first have the field
change which is a
function that accepts files which is of
a type an array of files and it doesn't
return anything so void and then the
media URL which is going to be of a type
string great so now it's complaining a
bit about these accepted files that's
because here we can Define what a file
is a file is an array of files so we can
Define it like so
and we can put it in a new line so it's
easier to see what's happening there we
go we have the used callback where we
have accepted files and this is actually
going to be an array of file width paths
and then everything is good once we do
that we're actually ready to set all of
our states to the file that gets
uploaded so let's try to upload a file
I'm going to grab one from our finished
application let's do this one I'm going
to save save it and now I can add it
right
here and there we go it gets back to
test one but hey let's actually show the
file that's there so this div can have a
class name equal to flex Flex D1 justify
Das Center w- full for full width
padding five and en large devices
padding
10 okay that just gave it some padding
but now let's actually render the image
it's going to be a self-closing image
that's going to have a source equal to
file URL it's going to have an Al tag of
image it's going to have a class name
equal to
fileuploader das
IMG and there we go finally let's add a
P tag right below that's going to say
click or drag photo to replace
and let's style it a bit by giving it a
class name equal to
fileuploader das label and we have to
put this outside of this div right here
but within a react fragment so here we
can put a react fragment close the div
and then put the P tag outside of the
div but inside of the
fragment if we save it that's looking
much better so now we can add a caption
we can add a photo location and the tags
and click submit the file uploader is
done but let's actually implement the
logic for adding all of these other
fields first of all the form fields are
complaining that this doesn't exist file
doesn't exist caption doesn't exist and
that's because we haven't yet validated
our form using Zod so right here we can
Define what our form should accept this
form should accept a caption which is
going to be if the post exists then post
question mark. Caption This is for when
we're editing else it's going to be an
empty
string the file is going to be an array
of files location is going to be if we
already have a post location then post
location else an empty string and tags
is going to be if we have a post then
post. tags. join by a comma else it's
simply going to be an empty string now
you can see that it's complaining that
this caption does not exist that's
because we are now using a default form
schema but we actually want to turn this
into post validation so let's head into
our
validations right here and we can
duplicate this sign inv validation right
below we can call this something like
post
validation it's not going to have an
email not a password but it's going to
have a caption of a type z.
string it's going to be a minimum of
about five characters and a maximum of
about 2,200 characters let's also have a
file which is going to be z. custom and
we can Define the value right here of
file or rather an array of files there
we go it's so handy how we can Define
custom types it's going to have a
location which is going to be of a type
z. string let's do Min of two Max 100
and then tags is going to be a z. string
there we go so now we have this custom
post validation and we can use it right
here three times where mentioned the
form schema and then you have to import
it from lib validation there we go so
now our post knows what we're trying to
render oh I just noticed here we're
using the input we have to spread the
field so we have to say do do dot field
like so and also we have to do the same
for the last one right here do dot dot
field there we go we're getting there we
have a couple more errors as you can see
we don't need this form schema as we
have created it in another file
file it's also complaining about what
we're receiving here typescript is also
complaining about the type of our props
here so we can say this is going to be
of post form props and we can Define it
right here by saying type post form
props is equal to where we have a post
question mark meaning sometimes it's
going to be here sometimes it will not
and this is of a type models do document
and this models is going to be coming
from
aight we also are never using a form
description and we can now structure
this more nicely by putting it in a
single
line there we go so now we have our form
which we're almost there we can actually
put the values in the validation is
working as you can see we can upload
images add a location and add tags the
last thing we have to do is implement
the logic what happens once we click
submit and this is where we're going to
connect with aite and create a new post
based off of these values within here we
can now use this new hook coming from
react query so let's define it right
here at the top by saying
const mutate
async which we can call create post and
is pending which we can call is loading
create that is equal to use create post
and we can import use create post coming
from queries and
mutations now that we have it we can
simply call this create post right
within
onsubmit the way in which we're going to
call it is const new post is equal to to
await create post to which we pass an
object where we spread all values of a
post and then pass the user ID of a type
user.
ID of a user that has created the post
once again how are we going to get the
user that's creating the post well
that's pretty simple we have created our
context so now at the top we can say
cont
user is equal to use user
context and we can import this from
Context o
context and immediately you get the ID
so now we have this new post and what do
we want to do once we create it well we
can say if there is no new Post in that
case we can return a
toast that's going to have a title of
something like
please try again and this toast is
coming from const toast is equal to use
toast coming from UI use toast there we
go what happens if we successfully
created a new post well in that case we
simply want to navigate to the homepage
so to be able to navigate we have to
import use navigate from react router
Dom let's do it right here import use
navigate from react router Dom and then
we can simply Define it as a hook cons
navigate is equal to use navigate and
then we call it right here navigate to
forward slash make sure to make the
onsubmit an async function
because we're using the await action of
create post so with all of this I'm
hoping we're successfully creating our
post if we get redirected to the
homepage it means we're good so let's
expand it to see it in full glory and
let's create our first post I'm going to
add our photo right here I'm going to
say something like nice Greenery on a
nice River
not as thoughtful as Chad jpt but what
can you do and we have a location I'm
not sure where this is let's do
something like River and we can add
something like
nature finally let's click
submit we got redirected but it does say
please try again so I'm guessing it
broke somewhere let's open up the
inspect element and then let's go to our
console and it says the current user is
not authorized to perform the requested
action okay that's interesting that
could be because we haven't set up the
permissions for us to upload new items
so let's go to app right let's go to
storage
media and then here
settings and we can add a new role for
any to create read update and delete
different assets from our storage just
to be sure let's go to database
snapgram post and it's good it wasn't
actually created so that's what matters
so now let's give it one more shot I'm
going to do something like River and
nature I'm going to upload the post one
more
time I'm going to add a location
something like a river and I'm going to
say nature right here as well and I'm
going to click
submit we indeed get redirected this
time without any errors but we still
cannot know whether the post was
actually created or can we if we go to
aite and go to posts and
reload we can see our first post appear
right here it was created created on
this date and it has this data liked
posts name username account ID email bio
image ID image URL save everything is
here so we know that the post was
created in the database but was the
image created in storage let's check
that out under media we have our
preview.png and we can see this image on
aight server
this is amazing so now the last thing
we'll have to do is implement the
homepage and fetch this phenomenal post
we've created so let's do that next to
create a new post we first have to
create a function that's going to do so
in aite before we can call it so let's
go ahead and let's go to our source lib
aight API and right here below sign out
account let's export async function
create post that's going to receive a
post of a type I as an interface new
post coming from add for/ types make
sure to import it and then we can open
up a new try and catch block you know
the drill right in the catch we can
simply conso log the error but in the
try is where the magic happens here
first we need to upload our file to
aight storage let's write that down
upload image to storage so we can say
const
uploaded file is equal to a wait upload
file where we pass the post. file0
meaning the first
post now this upload file function is
another function we'll create let's do
it right below export a sync function
upload file that accepts a file of a
type file it's going to have a try and
catch block within the catch we're going
to consol log the error but within the
catch we can say con uploaded file is
equal to
await
storage. create file so the first time
in this application we're diving into
the storage functionality remember we
had account databases avatars but now
also
storage this is used for saving media we
want to pass a couple of things we first
want to pass the storage ID by saying
upright config do storage ID then we
want to make a unique ID by saying id.
unique and then want want to pass the
file which we actually want to upload
finally we want to return the uploaded
file so now from the function above we
get this file back and we are ready to
attach it to a post that we're about to
create in a database just to be sure we
can do one check if there is no uploaded
file throw an error else we need to get
the file URL so we can say const file
URL is equal to get file
preview to which we have to pass the
uploaded
file. dollar sign
ID and this get file preview is another
function we'll create because we'll want
to reuse it multiple times across this
application so let's create a new export
async function get file preview it's
going to get one program of file ID of a
type string into it it's going to have a
try and catch where we consel Lo the
error in the
catch and in the try we need to get the
preview so we can say const file URL is
equal to
storage. getet file
preview here we first need to pass the
app config do storage ID we pass the
file ID we want to get
and then we specify the width and the
height which in this case I'm going to
set to
2,000 then we specify the gravity
meaning where is it going to show in
this case we're going to say top and
finally you specify the quality in this
case we're going to get 100 the top
quality finally once we get it we can
simply return a file
URL now we can go back to the function
above we now have our our file URL and
just to be sure we can add an if check
if no file URL throw a new error but
also not only do we want to throw an
error we also want to delete a file
because something was corrupted
something wasn't right with it so let's
create a new
function delete file to which we're
going to pass the uploaded
file do dollar sign
ID there we go so we're thinking up
front if something was corrupted we want
to delete the previous file and let's
create this function export async
function delete
file which once again accepts a file ID
of a type string of a file we want to
create it's going to be a try and catch
block with the Consol log of the error
right here
below error and then here we can say
await storage. delete file to which we
pass the upright config storage ID and
the file ID of the file we want to
delete and we can return an object with
a status of
okay there we go so now we're also dele
deleting a file and now if we have
successfully created a file if it isn't
corrupted then we are almost ready to
create a post but first we have to deal
with the tags so we need to
convert tags into an array we can do
that by saying cons tags is equal to
post. tags question mark.
replace we want to replace all of the
empty strings so we can do a regular
expression like so so globally we're
looking for all the spaces and we
replace it with an empty space and then
we split them by a comma so this will
ensure to then split all of our tags or
we can say just an empty
string and finally we are ready to save
the new post database by saying const
new post is equal to
await
databases. create
document first we pass the database ID
we want to update so ight config
database ID then we pass which
collection do we want to update by
passing the upright config do
postcollection
ID we Define the unique ID that we want
to create meaning the post like so and
then we need to pass the entire object
object containing all the data about the
post such as creator of a type post.
user ID the caption which is going to be
of a post.
caption image URL which is going to be a
file
URL image ID which is going to be
uploaded file. doar Sun
ID location which is going to be post.
location and then tags which is going to
be set to
tags and now this is saving this new
Post in the
database finally we want to check if the
new post was created so if no new Post
in that case we again want to delete
this file so we can call a wait delete
file and we want to pass the uploaded
file. doar sign ID because something
went wrong and we want to throw a new
error finally finally if all of that
succeeded we can return a new post and
with this we're done with the creation
of our post we're building a production
ready application so we have a lot of
checks we need to ensure that everything
is going well if it doesn't go well we
have to delete our file not to overload
our storage right so this is now our
function that will create a post now we
have to call this create post as a
mutation so we go back to our react
query queries and
mutations we can collapse the existing
ones and create a new one right here
below we can export const use create
post then we want to say as before
return use mutation to which we pass the
mutation FN as in function that's going
to get in a post of a type I new post
and we want to call a create post to
which we pass that post of course we
have to import the create post from
where we just created it at upright
API and also the I new post from at/
types but now this is not the only thing
we want to do once we create a post we
also want to query all the existing
posts so we can show them on the
homepage so let's say const query client
is equal to use Query client and then
right here after the mutation function
we can say on success so what's going to
happen on success we create this
callback function and say query
client.
invalidate
queries and here we can pass the filters
based off of which we want to invalidate
the query specifically we want to choose
a query key which is going to be
something like
posts or rather in this case not posts
but get recent posts why is that and why
do we need to invalidate it well that's
the beauty of react query it allows us
to fetch new fresh data and not let the
data go stale so the next time we try to
get recent posts it actually invalidated
this query which means that it will not
be able to get post from cash rather it
will need to recall it again from the
server so that's why we have to do it
this way and invalidate the query for
the recent posts after we create a new
post I hope that makes sense now later
on we're going to have many of these
query keys and it's a good idea to keep
them somewhere and keep them safe so
what we can do is create a new file
right here in react query called query
keys. TS and there we can define
something known as an enum so we can say
export enam query keys this is an
enumeration what it means that we can
Define or connect one key with one
string for example get recent posts is
going to be a string of get recent posts
now why do we have to do this well
that's because if you just misspell
something here like get posts like this
or get recent post maybe that's even a
bigger misspelling it might be really
really hard to notice almost impossible
and you can spend hours looking for this
bug but on the other hand if you do
something like this array query unor
keys. getet recent posts it's impossible
to miss it because you can import it
specifically from query keys and then
you know it's going to be right and now
if I misspell it here it's going to
immediately complain so this is a pro
tip when building large applications how
to save yourself from typos create an
enam where you'll be able to create more
different versions of this so in the
description down below you can find all
query keys. TS it's going to be just a
couple more and we'll use use these
later on to invalidate specific queries
so we can always keep our data fresh
great so now we have our use create post
mutation and we can call it within can
you guess where within post form yep we
finally got there we can start by
creating the structure for our homepage
we're going to have a div that's going
to have a class name equal to flex and
flex x one so it expands within it we're
going to have another div that's going
to have a class name is equal to home
Das container if we save this we cannot
see a lot but it's there let's go ahead
and move this over to the side so now
it's easier to develop right within our
home container we can create another div
that's going to have a class name equal
to home-
poost and within it we can create an H2
that's going to say home
feed there we go the first thing we can
see here let's give it a class name
equal to H3
dasb on medium devices H2 dasb text-
left and w- full so now we can see it on
the top left now immediately below we
want to show some kind of a loader
component if posts are loading so let's
create a fake const is post loading
which is going to be set to let's do
true for now immediately below we can
say if is post loading and if there's no
posts and post is going to be set to
null for now if there's no that then we
can show the loading right here or
rather a loader I believe we called it
we can import it immediately and else we
can actually create a UL that's going to
allow us to Loop over all of our
posts so for now we can see this great
loading but now let's focus on what
matters more and that is fetching all of
the posts to fetch the posts we'll have
to go to our
queries and here we'll have to create a
new query to get recent posts by saying
export
const use get recent
posts this is going to be a function
that's going to return a use Query no
longer a Ed mutation rather a used query
where the query key of what we want to
get is going to be an array of query
keys. getor
recentposts
and a query function meaning what will
get executed once we try to fetch this
this will have to be a function coming
from aight so now we have to move to the
aight API and create a new
function export async function get
recent
posts where we can set the posts to be
equal to await
databases. list
documents to that we have to provide the
aight
config database ID aright config
dopost collection ID as the second
parameter and then we can Define in
which order do we want to get it so we
can say
query.
orderes as in descending
DEC based off of the created at criteria
so the latest ones are going to appear
on top and then we can also do another
query. limit to 20 post tops and this
has to be as the second parameter to our
query just like this then we can fix
this right here and we can say if
there's no posts then we can throw an
error that's going to look like this
else we can simply return posts so now
we can go back to our queries and
mutations and we can simply say get
recent posts import it at the top and
now this use get recent posts is going
to expose this function to get called so
let's now go back right here and let's
declare a hook that we can call Con
where we get data so with every query
you get something known as a data object
and you can rename it to in this case
post we get the not is loading anymore
it's going to be is pending and that's
going to be is post loading and then
finally is error you also get that we
can say is error posts and that's going
to be equal to a hook of use get recent
posts which we can simply import and
call now if we save this it's going to
automatically know whether we have to
load something or not and as you can see
the loading was immediately switched off
and we can render test and as you can
see we can see it that means that we
indeed have some posts to load so let's
create the UI for loading a post we can
give this UL a class name equal to flex
flex-all so they appear one below
another Flex D1 a gap of nine for some
spacing and a w- full for full width now
here we want to map over the posts by
saying posts question mark.
documents. map where we get each
individual post of a type
models. document
and the models has to be imported from
aite and then we can instantly return An
Li which is a list item that for now can
render something like post. tile if we
save it we cannot see anything let's see
if I properly called it is it a title or
is it something else well if I go to app
right we can see we have the preview
image this is under storage but if I go
to
databases database posts and here we can
see all the attributes that this
document has under data so we have likes
caption yeah let's do caption post.
caption now if we do it we can see River
and nature which means we're getting it
right here from aite from our own server
database how cool is that but instead of
Simply showing the caption let's show
something more a nice looking post so to
do it we can render a new component
called post
card this is going to be a self-closing
component to which we're going to pass
the post as the first and only
prop there we go now this postcard of
course is something we have to create So
within components and then shared we can
create a new post card. TSX run
RFC and we can import it right right
here within the homepage once you do
that you can see the postcard and now
within the postcard we are ready to
implement the UI of the
postcard first of all we know that it's
going to accept posts as the prop so we
can say post did we pass it as a post or
posts yeah it's definitely going to be
post because it's singular one so we can
say post is going to be of a type post
post card props where we can Define it
right here at the top type postcard
props is going to be post of
models. document and this models is
coming from app right so immediately
know the structure of this document once
we get it we can use its data and then
render it so let's create a new div
that's going to have a class name equal
to post-c card that's going to create
this nice rectangle we can also do
another one right below that's going to
have a class name equal to flex
between within it we can create another
div that's going to have a class name
equal to flex items Das Center and a gap
of three and then there we can render
who created it so that's going to be
this right here Hobbit with a photo two
days ago and then tags that were added
so let's create a new link and this link
has to be imported so we can say import
link from react router
Dom that link is going to point to the
Creator who created it so we can say
two that's going to be
dynamic forward SL
profile
slost doc creator. dollar sign
ID here we can show the Creator's image
by saying image has a source of equal to
post question mark.
Creator question mark. image URL or we
can do a default of SL assets SL ions SL
profile dplace holder. SVG there we go
that's a huge the real JSM we can also
give it an ALT tag of creator
and a class name of rounded D
full W of 12 and then on large devices h
of 12 as well below that link we can
render a div that's going to have a
class name equal to flex
flex-all and within it we can render a P
tag that's going to render the post.
creator. name okay that's better below
this P tag we can render a div that's
going to render a new P tag and within
here we can show the post. dollar sign
created at there we go so now we have
the full date below it we can add some
kind of a dash and then add another one
that's going to say post.
location there we go so now we have
almost everything we need but let's go
ahead and style it a bit better this
first P tag is going to have a class
name equal to base-
medium this is going to make it Bolder
on large devices it's going to be body
bold and it's going to be text-
light-1 the div below is going to have a
class name of flex Das Center that's
going to center it a gap of Two and a
text of light three because it's not so
important as the Creator name the P tag
below can have a class name of subtle
semi bold so it's a bit less important
and a large devices small
regular finally the last btag is going
to have a class name of subtle D semi
bold and a large devices small regular
so same thing now the last thing we have
to figure out is how to actually format
this dat string into something that
makes sense like on here we say two days
ago and this my friends is the job for
Chad GPT no longer do you have to create
these functions on your own you can
Google it or you can simply ask Chad GPT
to do it for you so if you go to chat
GPT say something like I have this date
string literally like that I have this
date
string I'm
building a social
media app in
JavaScript and I want to convert that
date string into a more
meaningful format like two days ago or
two hours
ago create a
JavaScript function that does that okay
I could have been a bit more precise but
this is how we can do it as well
hopefully it's going to give us
something we can work with it created a
function called format date and it
showed us how we can use it so let's
simply copy this function and let's go
right here to our source lib and then
utils dots within here you can paste
this function and we can also say export
function format date here our typescript
is complaining a bit because I forgot to
tell chat GPT to make it in typ script
so I can simply say make it typescript
that should do the trick right um let's
see there we go certainly that's great
so we can simply copy it again and it
should have no problems at all we just
have to export it there we go export
format date now we can import this right
here and wrap the post created at so we
can say format date
wrapid and then we can simply import it
from l
utils if we do that and go back you can
see one day ago which is exactly when I
posted it sometimes it's possible that
Chad GPT is going to imagine something
and give you wrong code so for that
reason and for some other functions that
we're going to use later on the full
utils thats file is going to be in the
GitHub gist down below it contains the
function we just created as well as the
check is liked which is going to help us
later on and then another function
called format date string but that's
more or less it so now we can go back to
our function it still works exactly as
it should one day ago and now let's
focus on the most important part which
is showing some more details like the
caption and the tags and then finally
the image so we can go three devs down 1
2 3 and then here we can create a new
link this link will only be shown if we
are the ones that created the post
because then we'll be able to update it
so here we can say this is going to
point2
slash update
dpost
slost dollar sign ID so it's going to
point us to the update page and there we
can render an image that's going to have
a source equal to SL assets SL ions SL
edit.
SVG of course we want to make it a bit
smaller so let's give it an ALT tag of
edit and a width of 20 as well as a
height of
20 there we go that's better now how can
we hide this if we're not the Creator
well first we have to know what is the
ID of the Creator and then the ID of the
currently logged in user how can we know
that well we have done it a couple of
times we can simply use the context so
here we can say con
user is equal to use user context and we
can import it right here we can also say
if there's no post. Creator then we want
to return because something went wrong
here but in this case we should have a
user so right below we can add a class
name to this
link and this class name is going to be
dynamic and it's going to check if user
us er. ID is not equal to post.
creator. dollar sign ID and if that is
true it's going to render hidden and as
you can see in this case it
disappears although I'm not sure why did
it disappear because we indeed are the
real Creator oh it disappeared because
this and and hidden should have also
been within these brackets and then
within double quoted strings
there we go so now if we are it's there
if we're not it's not there great now
let's focus in more post details by
going below the link and below this div
we can create another link that's going
to point to for slash let's make it
Dynamic slost slash post. dooll sign ID
so if you click this it's going to point
to edit if you click anything above it's
going to point point you to the real
user or at least if you click the image
but now everything that is within this
link is going to point you to the post
itself or the post Details page so here
we can say div is a class name of
small-medium on large devices base-
medium and padding y off
five there within a P tag we can render
a post. caption of course this has to be
wrapped in curly
strings River and nature and Below we
can have a UL to render the tags so we
can give them a class name of flex gap-1
and margin top of two there we can
render the post. tags. map where each
tag is of a type string and for each tag
we want to instantly return an
Li that's going to have a key equal to
it's going to be tag and a class name of
text-
light-3 and we can simply render hashtag
and then the tag in this case it is
simply nature and finally we can go
below this div and render an image this
image is going to have a source equal to
post. image URL of course image with a
lowercased eye or we can render for/
assets SL ions SL profile Das
placeholder.svg
and it's going to have a class name
equal to post-c cardor IMG and an Al tag
of post
image if we save it we cannot seem to
see it so it's it's like the image URL
is not there let's consol log our post
to see what does it contain so here we
can consal log the entire
post we can then go to our inspect
element and go to the
console and here if we
reload you can see that we have a key
error on home 17 so let's quickly fix
that here we're mapping over the posts
but we're not passing a key so let's say
key is equal to post. let's do
caption if we reload it is gone and now
we have this post but the image URL is
simply an empty array that's not good
right same thing here the image ID is
here but the image URL is empty so now
we have to figure out where are we
updating the image URL in in the first
place apparently it's getting set to an
empty array so let's search and let's
search for image URL specifically we
want to search where we're updating it
not using it so here in the URL we're
setting the image URL to Avatar URL but
this is regarding the users we're
wondering about the posts so most likely
it's going to be would then create post
and there we go here we say the image
URL is equal to file
URL and the file URL should come from
the get file preview and then it's
uploaded file
ID so the first thing we can do is just
conso lock the file URL to see what are
we getting back so conso log I can put
it inside of an object that way it's
going to tell us what they conso logging
so just like this and then we can try to
create one another post so let's go back
let's increase the width of the browser
just a bit and then let's go to create
post let's write a new caption say
something like this time it will
work I added the JavaScript Mastery logo
right here and I can give location
something like JSM and we can add
nextjs as well as react and let's click
submit you can see the file URL first
was a promise and then fortunately the
same thing even for the second image the
image URL is empty but it's good to know
that we got a promise right here as a
file URL that's because if you go to the
get file URL we made this function an
async function and it shouldn't have
been one because nowhere is it awaiting
something so now we have to fix this by
removing the async from the
function and then we'll have to delete
what we have already in the database as
those posts are going to be broken so
let's go back to our app
right go right here we're going to have
two different media files right now
which I can completely
delete there we go but we know that the
storage worked so now I can go back to
databases snapgram and then posts and I
can also delete all of these posts right
here there we go so now if we go back
and
reload and now back on the homepage we
have no posts we do have one error
saying that it cannot find assets images
profile placeholder.svg so let's see
what that is about let's try to go to
profile dplace holder. SVG and we can
see that indeed it is there so where are
we trying to call it from let's try to
search for profile Das
placeholder.svg it seems like we're
calling it in a couple of places assets
here is it's icons but we have to verify
is it icons or is it images so it seems
like it's icons so here it's okay icons
here it's okay icons icons and finally
in top bar its images it should have
been icons so if we save this and reload
you can see that we have no errors and
we have no posts so now that we have
fixed the issue with the post creation
we removed the async from our upload
file or rather get file preview now it's
going to immediately return exactly what
it should which is the URL so let's
close all the files that we don't
need and let's simply create another
post and hopefully this time we'll be
able to see it on our homepage so I'll
do something like ultimate nextjs 13.5
course I uploaded this great Dev
overflow image which is the project
we're building in our nextjs course I'm
going to add the location of JSM Mastery
Pro
platform and we can add something like
nextjs and maybe
course and let's click
submit there we go it got submitted and
we can see it on our homepage that is
great we finally have the real profile
right here it says just now which is
amazing we have the full caption the
tags as well as the photo this is
phenomenal and the last thing we need
need is going to be the actions such as
the heart and the save so let's go back
to application let's collapse it to
check it out on mobile devices it's
looking great maybe this image is not in
the right format but still it gets
cropped properly so now let's go back to
the postcard to finalize the last post
actions So Below this link containing
the image let's create a new component
called post stats like this we're going
to pass two things we're we're going to
pass the post equal to post as well as
the user ID equal to user.
ID then we can create a new component in
the shared components folder called post
stats. TSX and run
RFC immediately back in the postcard we
can import post stats right here and
then we can focus on the post stats
component by first declaring which props
do we want to pass we immediately know
that's going to be the post as well as
the user ID which are going to be of a
type post stats props we can declare
those right above by saying type post
stats props is equal to a post is of a
type models which is coming from app
right dot document and the user ID is of
a type string now that we know what
we're getting let's focus on the UI and
the ux of our heart and save stats first
we can wrap everything in a div and that
div can have a class name that class
name is going to have a flex justify
between items Das Center and a zindex of
20 to appear on top right inside it
we're going to give it a div that's
going to have a class name equal to flex
Gap of two and margin right of
five finally right within we can show
the heart icon so let's say image that's
going to have a source is equal to and
let's do for now for SL assets SL ions
SL liked. SVG and there we go but of
course it's going to depend whether it
has already been liked or not so if it
has been liked then it's going to say
liked otherwise it's going to say like
which is going to show this different
kind of an icon so we'll have to
dynamically change this property for now
let's leave it statically as like let's
give it an Al tag of like let's give it
a width of 20 as well as a height of 20
let's give it an on click which for now
is going to be set to an empty callback
function and let's give it a class name
equal to
cursor Das pointer finally right below
it we can create a new P tag that's
going to render the number of likes for
now we can do it statically as
zero and we can give it a class name
equal to small-
medium and on large devices base- medium
there we go and we can do the same exact
thing for saved so let's copy this
entire div paste it below this time we
don't need margin right as it's already
on the right
side and we need to change change this
from like to save and everything else is
going to be exactly the same so now we
have likes and we have saves in this
case we don't need to show the number of
saves so we can remove the P tag there
we go this is great so now that we've
implemented the UI what do you say that
we implement the logic for liking saving
and unsaving as well we can do that
quite easily by heading to our API file
by the way I just press control or
command p and I started typing the file
name this is going to immediately move
you to the correct file here we can
create a new function export async
function like post we have to get a post
ID which is of a type
string as well as a likes array that's
going to be of a type string array we
need this to know the IDS of the people
that have liked the post
as usual we're going to open up a new
try and catch Block in the catch we're
going to Simply consel Lo the error and
in the try we'll try to like it by
updating the record of the post so we
can say const updated post is equal to
await
databases. update
document and as usual we have to pass a
couple of things to it you can see it
right here as well aight has is really
nicely documented their SDK so you have
to pass the database ID collection ID
document ID and then the data you want
to update so let's do that first let's
pass the database ID by saying app
config that database ID then we have to
pass the collection ID of the collection
we want to update in this case app
config that postcollection
ID then you need to pass the ID of the
post you want to update and then you
want to pass has the data in this case
likes of the new likes array so we know
what is the new like count finally if
there is no updated post there must be
some kind of an error so we can throw it
and we can then return the updated
post and this is it for the like
functionality of course we'll have to
consume this function within our react
query as well and make it a mutation but
we're going to do that soon for now
believe it or not the save post
functionality is quite similar so we can
simply duplicate this function below and
call it save post to save a post we do
need a post ID but we also need a user
ID of the user that's saving that post
of a type string then instead of
updating the post we're going to create
a new document so we can say do create
document we pass the database ID but
it's not going to be a post collection
it's going to be a saves collection ID
in this case we don't already have an
existing record of that save so we can
create a new one by running id.
unique and then we simply want to pass
the user as the user ID that's actually
saving the post and we want to pass the
post of the post ID so we know which
post is getting
saved and this is it we just return the
updated post and finally we're going to
also need to be able delete that saved
post from the database so let's
duplicate this one final time and let's
recall it or rename it as
delete saved post the only thing we need
is the saved record ID so we can say
saved record ID of a type
string in this case we want to remove or
delete a document so we can say
databases. delete document when you
delete a document you get back a status
code and to delete it you simply have to
pass the saved record ID as the third
parameter then we can check if there's
no status code we can throw an error
else we can return something like a
status of
okay and now we have these three
functions or we can call them mutations
that we can use within our react query
to then use them within our post stats
component so let's go go to our queries
and mutations and go right below our use
create post and use get recent posts
here we can export const use like post
which is going to be equal to an eror
function there we can define a query
client by saying con query client is
equal to use Query client and then we
want to return the use mutation we need
to pass a mutation function like so
that's going to get as a parameter one
object of post ID as well as the likes
array that's going to be of a type post
ID is of a type string and likes array
is of a type array of strings and then
we can have a function that we can call
the function we're going to call is the
like post coming from aight API and to
it we can simply pass the post ID
as well as the likes array and now it's
no longer complaining because it gets
exactly what it needs so now we have our
used mutation but the second thing we
can pass to our use mutation which goes
right here after our like post after our
comma is on success so the question is
what do we want to do on success where
we get some data back once we
successfully do an action well we want
to invalidate some queries so we can say
query
client do
invalidate queries in this case it's
going to be a query key of
query unor
keys. getet poost by ID with a data of
that specific post that we updated like
this so what does this mean well as I
said before every single post that we
get or fetch using react
is going to be cached which is amazing
because on subsequent reloads it will
already have them saved and it's going
to take so much less time to load them
on the screen but if you update
something about that post such as the
like count and then if you go into the
post details it's still going to have
the same old like count the one it had
before you actually updated it so to fix
this we have to invalidate the fetch to
theose detail details and say hey if
this changes if you like the post the
next time you open up the post please
update the like count that way it's
going to be reflected and we have to
invalidate a couple of other queries as
well so let's copy this one two three
more times the second one is going to be
get recent posts so if you just reload
the home you need to be able to see a
new updated like count then get posts
just in general and then get current
user because if you go to your profile
you need to be able to see the updated
like count and in other cases we don't
have to pass the ID of a specific post
because we're fetching many posts so it
doesn't really matter great so this is
the mutation for the use like count now
as before with the API actions this time
the use Save post is going to be similar
to the use like post so we can simply
dup duplicate this below we can rename
it to use Save post and then we're
getting the post ID as well as the user
ID not the likes array so we can modify
right here the type to user ID of a type
string instead of calling like post
we're going to call Save
post and we have to import it from aight
API and we want to pass the user ID as
the second parameter or let's be careful
if we have a r it says post ID and then
user ID and here it's post ID user ID so
you have to pass them in the same order
in this case I truly did call it post ID
and then the user ID so that's great on
success we don't need to update the
specific post get post by ID but we need
to update all the other three so we can
just do it like this and finally the
last one use delete saved post is going
to be the same so we can duplicate it
one more time right
below it's going to be called use
delete saved
post the only thing we need is one
simple parameter right here of Saved
record ID and then we can call a
function called delete saved post which
we can import from aite and pass in the
saved record
ID this has to be of a type string there
we go and then we're going to invalidate
the same queries so now we have three
phenomenal functions which we can use to
make the logic of our application work
so let's save the file go back to the
post stats and let's retrieve all of
these phenomenal mutations and queries
by using the hooks provided to us by
react query that are by consequence
using aite functions so back in the post
stats we can see con
mutate which we're going to rename to
like post is going to be equal to use
like post which we have to import from
queries and
mutations we can duplicate this three
more times the second time the mutate
function is going to be called save post
and the third time it's going to be
delete saved
post of course we have to call this use
Save post which we also have to import
and use
delete saved post which we can also
import right here we also need to know
who is the currently logged in user
which we can get pretty easily by saying
cons data rename it to current user is
equal to use user context which we can
import from o
context then we have to figure out what
are the current likes on a specific post
and we can do that right here at the top
Top by saying
const likes list is equal to post which
is coming from props right here likes.
map where we get each individual user
why user because we're saving a
reference to the user whenever somebody
likes it which is going to be type of a
models. document and we want to return
just their ID so user. dollar sign ID
and that gives us the likes list
then we want to create two Ed States so
the first used state is going to say
likes as well as set likes right here
and at the start it's going to be set to
the likes list so immediately we know
it's going to be an array and we also
have to import use state from react
which we can do at the top by saying
import use State we can also get use
effect coming from react
and in the same way we want to know if
the post has been saved so we can say is
saved set is
saved and that's going to be equal to
false at the beginning so now we have a
lot of things we need to enable this
functionality so let's create two
functions we're going to use to like
dislike and save and unsave posts const
handle like post is going to be a
function
as well as const handle save post which
is going to be another function for now
now we have all of these properties we
can work with right here Below in the UI
so let's make use of them first things
first we can figure out if a post has
been liked and based on that we can show
a different icon so instead of a source
assets icons like we can open up a new
Dynamic block and there we can say check
is liked coming from lib utils to which
we're going to pass the likes so we know
the full likes array as well as the
current user ID and we can check if it's
currently in there if it is then we're
going to show the liked feature like so
and of course we have to close this
properly so everything appears nicely
and open up a new template string there
we go so check is liked if it is we
render the assets icons liked and else
we want to render something like assets
icons like if we save it you can see
that now it's a zero and it's not liked
later on once we click it it should turn
out red once we click the like we want
to get the click event and then call the
handle like post to which we pass the
event if the only thing you have here
you pass there you can immediately just
do a shorthand which means like this
similar thing here instead of zero we
can display the likes. length so how
many likes there
are and then we can do a similar thing
with saved so we can open up a new
Dynamic template string block and close
it of course right at the top we can say
if is saved if it is saved we can simply
return assets icons saved.
SVG else we can return something like
assets icons save there we go and we can
put it like here there is even a shorter
way of doing this we don't have to
create a template string because we're
returning one string in any case same to
here so we can remove this
entirely and just say if is saved make
it this else make it this same thing we
can do here soest check is liked if so
return this else return this and if we
save it it's good right now it's not
saved nor liked so it should be empty
finally if we do this we can handle save
post great so now you can see a lot of
these are used likes is saved but the
mutations are not used so what's going
to happen once we actually click this
button let's do that next in the handle
like post we get one parameter of a Type
e as an event and for now we can set it
as react.
mouseevent we also have to import react
from react so we can do it
here immediately within we can say e do
stop propagation so this is not going to
allow us to click any further it's just
going to click this that's done in case
you make this entire container clickable
so it points to a post and then if you
click it here it's only going to like it
it's not going to do any any other
action like go to the Post
details then we have to update the likes
array by saying new likes is equal to an
array where we spread all the previous
likes and then we need to check if new
likes that includes the current user ID
like meaning if they have already liked
it and to make this code more meaningful
we can even extract this right here and
say const has liked is equal to this
so if has liked see how much more sense
this if now makes so if has liked in
that case we can update the likes array
or rather the new likes to be equal to
new likes.
filter where we're going to get the ID
and we want to check if the ID is not
equal to the user ID so we're going to
keep all the likes besides the current
like because we want to remove it and
else else if it not has liked we simply
want to call new likes. push and we want
to append the new user ID because that
user liked it too finally once we do
that we want to set likes to be equal to
new likes and we want to call the like
post mutation so we can say like post to
which we need to pass the post ID which
is of a post. dollar sign ID and the
likes array you can see typescript even
lets us know what we have to pass right
here it's going to be the new
likes there we go but if we do it it's
complaining that the argument type new
likes is not assignable to parameter of
type likes array so this is really good
again thank you typescript we have to
Define likes array and then pass new
likes right here and now this is the
function that's going to handle the like
post and as you can see this is being
used and then also this mutation is
being used as well now let's do a
similar thing for the save as before we
can duplicate all the logic within our
handle like post collapse it and put it
right here within our handle save post
we also need to get the react mouse
event right here and then the logic is
going to be even simpler we can delete
everything right here and we can say if
saved post record so have we already
saved it and how are we're going to
figure that out well let's define it
right here const saved post record it's
going to be equal to to the current user
question mark. saave doind so we want to
find if the record exists of a type
models. document meaning is that user
added to the array of the user that
saved the post and we can check that by
saying find where the record doore ID is
triple equal to to the post. dollar sign
ID there we go so now we're trying to
figure it out if there is such a thing
in that case we want to set is saved to
false and we want to call the delete
saved post to which we want to pass the
saved post record
do dollar sign ID so if we already have
saved it and if we click it again we
want to remove it from Saved and then we
want to call the save post to it we need
to pass the post ID of a type post.
dollar sign ID and also the user
ID and we can finally set is saved to
true in this case of course it's going
to handle both action
and please take a second and notice if
I've made a mistake here we have an if
statement that delete the save but then
every time as well we also called this
that's because we didn't return right
here if you add a return statement like
so it's going to stop the execution of
all the other blocks or an alternative
is to also add an else here so we can
say if it is not saved then save it if
it is saved then remove saved here we go
and now we can save this this gives us a
lot of data to work with but before we
go ahead and test it out typescript is
trying to save us one more time it's
saying property data does not exist on I
context type and that's because I've
made a mistake this should not be coming
from the get user context it should be
coming from use get current user which
is a new function or a new query quy
that we have to create this query is not
only going to give us the user's ID and
the name as we get from the odd context
it's also going to give us more
information such as which posts does the
user have saved and based off of that
we'll be able to figure out whether we
need to save or unsave so let's go to
our queries and
mutations we can export const use get
current user
which is going to be an arrow function
and we can return a simple use Query
where we pass the query key of query
keys. get current user and a query
function which we're going to call is
going to be get current user and this is
coming from aight API we have already
created this API function before because
we we needed it for the context we can
get it here as well and now if we go
back we can import the used get current
user and we can remove the import from
the
context there we go everything works
typescript is not complaining so let's
go ahead and test it out I'm going to
press the like button really carefully
because I'm scared we've done a lot of
changes hopefully it
works okay would you look at that it's
saved and it unsaved not only that but
it did it instantaneously the reason why
that is happening is because we're using
react query it does something known as
an optimistic update before it actually
updates it in the database it provides
user with an instantaneous feedback now
of course the key thing is if I reload
the page is it going to remain saved and
it does let's check the same thing with
save oh it doesn't allow me to unsave it
for some reason hm interesting
let's see why that is so if we check
this is saved it is set to is saved to
false but then once I check it in the
handle save post do we ever set it to
false it seems like we do right here but
what if I reload the
page okay now it's unsaved what if I
save it if I
reload it is not saved so we have to be
able to get the current Save State
whenever we reload the page to do that
we can extract this saved post record by
copying it and putting it right here at
the top then what we can do is create a
new use
effect and this use effect is going to
have a typical callback function and
it's going to change whenever the
current user changes and then we can set
is saved to be equal to saved post
record
um so if there is a saved post record we
can return a true else we can return a
false because this has to be a Boolean
and there's a shorter way of doing this
whenever you have something if that
something exists return true else return
false what you can also do is automatic
Boolean assignment and That is do a
double exclamation mark So what this
does is it checks whether there is a
Trudy value if there is a Trudy value
this is going to you make it a falsey
value and then from falsey you get the
try so let me give you an example
because I know this is a bit complicated
if we have the saved post record which
is let's say an object of Saved is true
like this then we call one exclamation
mark on Saved post record which is going
to return false and then we call one
more time this on the false and we get
true if you were to repeat this with
another true value like maybe just a
string of test it would also return
false because once you negate it you get
a false and then a false is true but if
you were to do this on a falsy value
like if you were to do it on an empty
string then at the end you would get
false because first it converts to a
true and then false I hope this makes
just a bit of sense there we go and we
can save this and we can reload the page
now if we press save it remains saved
but I still cannot unclick it okay let's
see if I'm doing something wrong here I
think that right here where I was
checking for the saved post record the
record itself is the user so I cannot
compare the record of the user or the ID
of the user with the ID of the post what
I need to do is dive into the record.
post the that user has saved and then
compare with the post ID so now if I
save this the saved record post or save
post record should successfully get the
state and now I can be able to toggle it
on toggle it off but it looks like not
on let's reload and
see so if I do it here it's on yeah but
it doesn't allow me to bring it back so
let's just ensure that a couple of
things are in order first of all if it's
unsaved here go to app right and then go
to the saves collection there should be
zero documents because no post are saved
if that is the case once you click it
and now go back to aite and reload you
should be able to see one save there but
it looks like our user wasn't added and
here it unsaved it so something is
broken so let's try to click it once
again this time it stays saved and if
you reload right here it looks like it
added another document with a again an
empty user so this is not looking good
it is possible that we got disconnected
in the meantime so it doesn't know which
user is there so for now what I'm going
to do is I'm going to delete both of
these two documents because we don't
want to have any saves and I'm going to
quickly log out and then log back in to
ensure everything is good I'm going to
use my same email and sign in now we can
see we're logged in and now I click save
but if we go right here it looks like it
didn't yet save it so it's possible we
need to add loadings for Save and unsave
so right here with save we can say is
pending and we can say is saving post
and we can do the same here with is
pending we can say is
deleting saved and now we can use those
two right here to display a loader so
before the image we can say if
is saving post or if is deleting saved
in that case we can return a loader
component which we have to import from
loader else we return an image that's
going to allow us to click it and then
we have to close this block here so now
if I reload the page it's going to say
it's not or it is saved and here if I go
we indeed do have a save document now if
I unsave it oh the loading is in the
wrong place I added it within the saved
or handle like not save so I'm going to
take this entire part remove it from
here and add it right
here there we go so it should be in the
saved and now if I save
it we can see that it's currently
unsaved which we can also verify in app
right and now if we save it again it was
loaded and then it's saved so it's
looking good here one more time I'm
going to unsave
it and go
back it's gone we get a 500 and this is
okay from time to time you will see some
errors but that's because aight is still
in beta it's going to be phenomenal once
it's out so let's just
reload it works again it's unsaved and
one final time let's click save and
check it out it is here so now the save
functionality works perfectly as does
the like feature as well this is great
and with that we're done with the post
stats with the queries mutations and
apis for the Post stats as well you can
remove the conso log that we had in the
post card and we can focus not on the
home right now but rather on the edit
page because we need to be able to edit
the post as well and trust me this is
going to be simpler than you might think
you have to go to the edit post page and
then you can also open the create post
page in here we can copy the entire
create post and then paste it in the
edit post we can of course exchange the
create with edit
post now it seems like we're creating
one so we can simply change this to
instead of create we can say edit and in
this case we'll also have to load the
existing post data so it's going to be a
bit more complicated and create so what
we can do is right here get the ID of
the post we want to edit by saying const
ID is equal to use
perams and this use perams is coming
from react router Dom so we can import
use perams from react router
Dom there we go and we need to get the
post details so to get to the post
details we have to create an API
function so so let's go to our API below
save post and delete saved post and by
the way if some of these things are now
working for you there's going to be a
complete apit TS file as well as the
queries and mutations file down below so
let's create a simple get post by ID by
saying export
async function get post by ID where we
get the post ID of a typ string and then
we open up a new try and catch Block in
the catch we conso log the
error and in the try we can get cons
post is equal to await databases. getet
document we want to get it from aight
config database
ID from the post collection so we can
say app right config post collection ID
and we can pass the post ID finally we
can return the post
post now we have this function and we
have to consume it by react query so
let's go to queries and
mutations we can go below use delete
saved post and we can create new one
called export const use get post by
ID here we can say return use
Query where we're going to have a query
key of an array of query uncore
keys. get post by ID like this and we
need to pass the post ID in
it and this post ID is coming as a param
to this function so we can say post ID
of a typ string finally which function
are we going to call to query this post
we're going to call the query FN which
is going to call the get posted by ID to
which we pass the post ID and this of
course has to be imported from the top
right here from aight API get posed by
ID I think it's here there we go and
once you do that we'll also have a
special property called
enabled so you want to set this defaults
to disable automatic ref fetching when
the query mounts or the query Keys is
changed so we want to enable the
fetching only when we're fetching the
data for another ID if we're fetching it
again for the same one then we're going
to get the same details if the post ID
didn't changed again this is a small
step here nicely built into react query
but it allows us to cache data and fetch
data more efficiently so now we have
this use get post by ID and we can go
back to right here in the edit
post where we can use it by saying const
data is equal to post and is pending is
equal to use get post by ID of course I
have to spell it correctly and pass the
ID and then we have to import it from
queries and
mutations the ID has to be a string so
we're going to pass either this or an
empty string then if we are pending
meaning if we're loading the data in
that case we can say return if is
pending then we can simply return
something like a loader like this which
is coming from components shared
loader but now once we do fetch the data
what do we want to do with it well we
simply want to pass it over to our post
form with an action equal to update
because now we're updating and a post
equal to post there we go you can see
the data was already populated how did
that happen well more than that soon
let's dive into the post form we can
also accept the action and we can say
that action is either going to be create
or it's going to be update so now we
know exactly what we're getting in and
all the data automatically got populated
because we're accepting this post right
here as a prop but the question is how
can we get the file to get updated as
well because you can see right here we
don't see the photo or the file and to
get it we have to look into our file
uploader component that we have created
not that long ago to it we're passing
the media URL post image URL so it
should be able to read the image we're
showing so if you go back to the
homepage and click edit it should be
able to read it but it doesn't so let's
simply conso log right here at the top
whether we're getting post dot image URL
so let's conso log the post. image URL
and then we can save
it this post is coming from let's see
here
it's saying that sometimes it's
undefined so we have to add a question
mark so our app doesn't break that's
great now let's open up the
console and let's
reload and as you can see we indeed do
get a post which is our exact image
which is great so we just have to figure
out how to show it right here in the
photos and that's most likely have to do
with going into the file uploader and
then using the media URL yes as you can
see we're currently not using it so we
can simply set the media URL to be a
default State the default file URL and
if we do that immediately it gets
updated so now if we reload as you can
see once you visit the create route it's
empty but if you go to the edit you can
see right here that it nicely gets all
the data the photo as well and now you
should be able to resubmit the form to
then edit the actual details
don't click it just yet because if you
click it now it's going to create
another post because if you go to the
edit or onsubmit in here we're only
calling the create post but we're not
calling edit post which we have to
create so one thing that I noticed is
that here it's complaining that action
should be update with an uppercase du so
let's do it that way and now we'll have
to focus on the logic of updating the
post so let's do that next to implement
the update post we can go to our API and
right here we can add a new function
called update post to do it we might as
well copy the initial create post that
we had here because a lot of the logic
is going to be similar so let's copy it
and then paste it right here below this
time it's going to be called update
post and we'll have to get the entire
post want to update now the first thing
we want to do is we want to figure out
if the user is updating the contents as
well as the image or if they're updating
just the contents so we can say const
has file to update and that's going to
be true if the post. file. length is
greater than one this can be above the
try and catch block and then inside of
the try we can form this new image by
saying let image is equal to image URL
is post. image URL and image ID is post
that image ID and this is going to be of
a type I update post so we can import it
from the types that way we know it's
going to contain the file as well as
well as the image ID and the image URL
now once we have the image we can figure
out if the user has a file to update and
if they do we can open this block and we
can slowly start adding things to it so
if they have a file to upload we want to
get the uploaded file we want to check
if it's there we want to get the file
URL alongside the error Handler for the
file URL put all of that above and then
finally in this case we want to update
the image by saying image is equal to we
spread the existing image and then
update the image URL with a new file URL
and update the image ID with a new
uploaded file. doar sign ID this here is
going to be the entire image and the
image has to be reassign so it has to be
led but it's still complaining that
image is never used we're going to use
it really
soon now we get the tags same things as
before and then we want to save the post
of the database but this time it's not
going to be create it's going to be
update once we update it we want to get
the same databid same post collection
but this time we're updating an already
existing post so so we can get the post.
poost ID right here and then here we can
Define what do we want to update the
creator doesn't have to be updated it's
the same one the caption is post.
caption image URL is going to be this
new image object do image URL image ID
is going to be image do image
ID location is the same and tax is the
same finally if we don't have this let's
call it an up upd dated
post then we can await delete file post.
image ID so if something went wrong
we're deleting the file else we're
returning the updated
post this is great this is going to
enable us to update the post and while
we're here let's also implement the
delete post that way all of the cred
options for the Post are going to be
complete so we can say export async
function delete post to delete it we
need to be able to get the post ID of a
type string and an image ID of a type
string then what we can do is say if
there is no post ID or if there's no
image ID we can throw an error because
we need those to be able to delete a
post and we also need to delete an image
which is why we need an image
ID then we can go to the try and catch
you know the drill in the catch we can
conso log the error and in the try we
can say await
databases. delete document to which we
pass the database ID the post collection
ID as well as the post ID that we want
to delete and finally we can return
something like a status that's going to
say okay there we go so now we have
delete as well don't forget we have to
consume this within a react query so
let's go to query iies and mutations and
before creating it we can simply copy
the one before and then paste it here we
can rename it to use update post we
don't need to get anything inside of it
in this case it's not going to be a
query it's going to be a mutation so we
can say const query client is equal to
use Query client and then use mutation
instead of use Query because this is a
mutation an update not a fetch
then we don't need to define a query key
because we're doing a mutation and we
can say mutation function instead of a
query function in this case we need to
get the post because we need to know
what are we updating of a type I update
post which we can import from types and
then we can update post by importing
this from aight API and we pass the
entire
Post finally we want to do something on
success so on success we're going to get
all the
data and then call the query client do
invalidate queries so if we update a
post we need to update the query key
under query
keys. get post by ID because we have
updated it and if you go to the Post
Details page it needs to be updated and
we can now duplicate this
below this time we can call it use
delete
Post in this case we need to get two
things into the mutation function so
let's define them properly it's going to
be an object of post ID and image
ID and that's going to be of a type post
ID is a a type string and image ID is a
a type string as well and then we call
not update post but rather delete
post coming from ight API and and to it
we pass a post ID as the first parameter
and image ID as the second finally the
query you want to invalidate here is get
recent posts because in case we delete a
post then we need to be able to refetch
all the posts on the homepage to show
all the new posts without the deleted
one now that we have these options we
can go back to the post form and we can
import all of these actions or mutations
from react query so right here below the
use create post we can do something
similar by duplicating this entire line
mutate async in this case is going to be
update
post is pending is going to be is
loading
update and this is going to be use
update post which has to be imported
from queries and
mutations now we can go right in our
submit
Handler and we can check at the Top If
post exists and if action is triple
equal to the update with a capital u in
that case we say const updated post is
equal
to
await update
post and then we need to pass all of the
options in it this update post is coming
from our react query and of course it's
doing the action from aight
API so now we need to pass do do dot
values meaning everything about that
post we also need to pass the post ID of
the post we're updating by saying post.
dollar sign ID we can pass the image ID
by saying post question mark. image ID
as well as the image URL which is going
to be post. image URL
finally if we don't have the updated
post meaning something went wrong it
should say updated
post then we can release a toast saying
something like title
is please try again and if it succeeds
we can return navigate this time we're
going to forward SL poost slash
poost do doll sign ID so no longer are
we going to the homepage to see the new
post we created we're going to the
details of that page to see that it was
successfully updated great because we
have this return here we don't have to
wrap this in an else because once we
update it's going to do this and exit if
it's not update it's going to do this
immediately great so now if we save this
we're successfully doing the update
action so let's try to say something
like let's say the course got updated to
version
13.6 and we want to add a URL so we can
say URL is JS mastery. proo we can leave
the location and this the same but it
says submit maybe it should say
something else so if we go down to the
button in the button sometimes we need
to disable it when it's currently
loading so we can give it a disabled
State and say if is loading create or is
loading update then we want to disable
the button so the user cannot just mash
it multiple times
and the button can say something like
this if it's loading and if it's
disabled the button should render the
loader so we can say if is loading
create or is loading update then we want
to Simply return the loading State like
so and if it is loading it can say
something like post but it can be an
action so it's going to either say
create if we're creating or
update if we're updating so let's just
ensure that on the create post we're
properly passing it here we're not so we
need to pass an action equal to
create and now if we go back as you can
see on update we can see update post I'm
not going to go back now to show you the
create but you can trust me that on
create it's going to say create now
modify your original post and let's give
it a run click update post and let's see
what happens it says loading update post
and we got redirected to the post
Details page exactly as we wanted just
to verify that the post indeed did get
updated we can go to our posts and we
can see if the caption contains what we
added so that's going to be in the data
and we can see that indeed it does so
this is great so immediately the next
reasonable step is to implement the post
Details page as now our homepage is
looking pretty good and the actions are
there as well so let's focus on the post
Details page next by going to post
details and implementing its UI to
implement the post details we first have
to fetch the post details from the
database and the way in which we can do
that is by saying const
data which we can rename to post
as well as is loading or in this case is
pending because we're using react query
version 5 is equal to use get post by ID
coming from queries and mutations to
which we need to pass the
ID the ID is coming from use perams so
we can immediately import use perams
which is coming from react router Dom
and then we can say const ID is equal to
use for Rams and that ID can sometimes
be an empty string like so in case we
didn't get fetch it from the perams
great so now we have the F data let's go
ahead and use it within our UI right
here we can wrap everything in a div
that has a class name equal to postore
details Das
container inside of this div we can
check if we are currently loading so we
can say if is pending in that case we
want to return a self-closing loader
component which we can import from
components loader else we can return a
div that has a class name equal to
postore details dcard this is going to
create this rectangle that you can see
within it we can immediately render the
Creator image as a matter of fact a lot
of things from the homepage which we can
see right here like the Creator image
and all all of these details can be
taken from there so let's go to our home
and then we're going to go to the post
card and we can copy this div that
contains the link with all of the
profile details so let's copy it all the
way to here and then we can paste it
right here within post details instead
of this image that we just
added there we go I can indent it
properly we have to import link coming
from react router Dom so let's get it
right
here we can also notice that post is
possibly
undefined so whenever we're talking
about a post we have to add a question
mark after so question mark here here as
well and here with the location and we
have to import the format date right
here now if we go back to the post
details you can see we have this the
real JSM this is great but in this case
we want to show it after the post so we
can go above in the post details card
and immediately here render a
self-closing
image that's going to have a source
equal to post question mark. image URL
with an ALT tag of Creator and a class
name equal to postore details D IMG and
this is not going to be Creator it's
going to be the actual post
there we go so now we can see the post
and then we can see who created the post
we can rename this div that contains the
link into
postore detailsinfo
there we go and then we can wrap it all
in another div this div is going to have
a class name equal to flex between as
well as
w-o and now we'll have to put all of
these details on the left side and then
the button butons on the right side so
let's do just that within this div we
can put the link that points to the
Creator image and that link can wrap
everything all the way to the end right
here and we can remove these characters
that I don't need so now if we save it
you can see the real JSM fits nicely and
we can put this link within this new div
that we have created with a flex
between there we go
of course this link will have to have a
class name equal to flex so that all of
these elements appear in a row it's
going to have items Das Center and a gap
of
three and now we can go below this link
and we can create those actions that we
should have on the right side if at any
point something breaks or doesn't look
the same I know we switched a lot of
code here you can go to the finished
project GitHub repository and find the
post Details page page now below this
link we can create another div that's
going to have a class name equal to flex
Center as well as a gap of
four within it we can create another
link this link is going to render the
edit image so let's say image is going
to point to Source SL assets SL ions SL
edit.
SVG and of course if it's a link we have
to give it a two property it's going to
go to forward slash we have to make it
Dynamic update
dpost
slost question mark. dollar sign ID and
there we go we have a huge edit button
we only want to show this if the person
that created it is the author so we need
to again know who is the currently
logged in user to know that we can say
const user is equal to use user context
and we can import it and now we have the
user so we can go back down and to this
link we can apply a class name saying
that if user. ID is not equal to post
question mark.
creator. dollar sign ID in that case we
want to make it hidden so completely
hide it in this case it's still there
because we created it then this image
has to have a width of about 24 and a
height of 24 and an Al tag of edit it's
much smaller we should also make this
profile photo smaller as well so let's
go to the Creator and we can make it W8
and H can be 8 as
well but on large devices W can be 12
and age can be 12 and if we save it we
have to say on large devices H is 12
there we go that's looking better and
now alongside this edit we also want to
add another
button but this time the button is going
to be for
delete so we can say on click we want to
call a handle delete post and we have to
declare that function of course const
handle delete post for now it be an
empty callback
function it's also going to have a
variant equal to ghost it's going to
have a class name equal to
ghostcore details D deletor BTN and it
has to have the same class right here to
hide it if we're not the current Creator
so let's copy this right here turn this
into a dynamic template
string and then we can paste it right
here
finally within the button we can render
an
image and this image is going to have a
source equal to for/ assets SL ions SL
delete. SVG with an ALT tag of
delete a width of 24 and a height of 24
as well and there we go now we can see
both of these we can also lower the Gap
a bit maybe Gap two is going to be fine
or even one looks good what if you do it
with no Gap there we go even without a
gap it's looking good and if you expand
it keep in mind it still looks good on
all different devices this is
wonderful now don't delete the poe just
yet we still have to add a caption in
more details so let's go below this
button and Below two more
divs and then here we can create an HR a
horizontal line with a class name equal
to border
w- full and border colar of Border D
dark of 4 over
80 if we save it you should be able to
see a really unnoticeable line that's
going to create some spacing and then
below we can copy everything we already
had from a post
card not the Creator things but rather
all of the post tags the post caption
and more so let's simply copy this div
that contains the post caption it's just
this small one right here we can paste
it below the
HR indent it properly and everywhere
where we're saying post we can add a
question mark as well and there we go we
have this wonderful caption we can
change this tiing a bit from this div by
giving it a flex Flex Das Co Flex D1 w-
full small- medium and on large devices
base- regular
there we go that's going to position it
a bit better and finally we need to
render the post stats so let's go below
this div create another div that's going
to have a class name equal to
w-o and within there we can render a
post stats self-closing component which
we have to import from components shared
post
stats with a post is equal to post a use
user ID equal to user. ID in this case
it complains that a post could possibly
be undefined so we can say post or an
empty object so it doesn't break oh but
the structure of an empty object is not
the same as the structure that it should
have so in the post stats we can declare
the post as optional maybe it's not
going to be there but then it lets us
know please add question marks so the
app doesn't break so that's exactly what
I'm going to do I'm going to add a
question mark whenever post is
mentioned oh but then it's complaining
that we actually need to pass a post ID
to the save post so I'm going to add
right here or an empty string or an
empty string as well and now we are good
so if we go back now we have the post
stats and you can see the likes and
saves as well on the bottom this is a
real post Details page looking really
similar as it does on the original
Instagram application keep in mind that
you can go to the edit which is great
and you can also delete it which we're
not going to do for now but this is
wonderful and later on once we have more
posts we're going to also Implement
other post recommendations right here
below this one so you can scroll through
the app and find all the post that you
like but with that said we're making
amazing progress we have the
homepage we have the create post page we
also have the the edit page we can like
and unlike save and unsave as well as
visit the post details this is amazing
so let's go ahead and focus on the
second major page of our app which is
the explore page here we're going to
expand it further so no longer it will
only be a home where we fetch the latest
post we're going to have some search
Logic we're going to have the infinite
scroll logic and a lot more so let's get
started with a explore next by putting
this to the side and then opening the
explore page to get started with our
explore page we can first wrap
everything in a div that's going to have
a class name equal to explore Das
container then within it we can have
another div that's going to have a class
name equal to explore Das
inore
container within that one we're going to
have have an
H2 this H2 is going to say search posts
and it's going to have a class name
equal to H3 D bold on medium devices H2
Das bold and w- full now right below it
we can have a div that's going to have a
class name equal to flex gap of one
padding X of
four w- full rounded - LG and a BG of
dark 4 we are now starting to form the
UI for our search so let's render an
image and that image is going to have a
source equal to SL assets slash ions SL
search.
SVG there we go and then we can give it
a width of 24 and a height of 24 and
then I'll tag off search finally let's
create an input
this is going to be a self-closing input
component coming from components UI
input it's going to have a type is equal
to text a placeholder that's going to
say search a class name equal to explore
Das
search and of course what would an input
be without a value which is going to be
a use state right here on top so we can
use a state snippet and we can call it
search value set search value as well
and then at the start it's going to be
set to an empty string and we of course
have to import use State coming from
react now we can use this search value
right here and the input also needs
something to modify that value which is
going to be an onchange
Handler this onchange is going to get an
event and it's going to set search value
value to be equal to e. target. value
like so so we can immediately get the
value and then modify it now let's go
two devs below and then there we can
start creating the what is about to
become the popular the explore page so
let's give this div a class name equal
to flex Das
between w- full for full width Max DW
d5xl
and margin top of 16 to divide it from
the search and margin bottom of
seven in there we can have an H3 that's
going to be similar to this H2 and we're
going to change the styling to be body-
bold as Wells on medium devices H3 Das
bold and we can change it to H3 there we
go instead of search posts it's going to
say popular
today right below it we can can create a
new div that's going to have a class
name equal to flex Das Center gap of
three background of dark three rounded
Das excl padding X of four padding y of
two and cursor Das pointer this is going
to be a button to filter our posts so
let's create a P tag that's going to say
all at the start we're filtering by all
we can give it a class name equal to
small medium on medium devices base
medium and text- light-2 for the color
below this P tag we can render a
self-closing image tag that's going to
have a source equal to SL assets SL ions
SL filter.
SVG it's going to have a width of 20 a
height of 20 and an Al tag of filter
there we go so now this is looking
really good and now we can go two divs
below and we can show the results of
what's popular today so let's create a
new Dev that's going to have a class
name equal to flex flex-wrap gap of nine
between each post a W-4 for full width
and a Max W of 5 XEL now inside of here
we should figure out if we should show
no post post or if we should show old
posts so let's create some variables
that are going to help decide what to
show we can say const should
show search results and that's going to
be equal to if search value is not equal
to an empty string then yes it should
show search results then const
should show posts it's going to be equal
to if it's no should show search results
I think I misspelled it show show it
should have been should show so if no
should show search results and if we
have posts so later on we're going to
have an array of post cons post is an
array and then we'll be able to say if
posts. pages. every page has an item
where an item. documents do length is
greater
than zero that means that we do have
posts but again this is just a fake
array soon enough we're going to fix
this but these two Boolean variables
should allow us to know what we need to
display so right here below we can say
if should show search
results then we can do a Turner
operation and then we can show a new
search results component like this else
we can check if should show posts then
we can do a P tag here and say end off
posts because we have came to the bottom
and we can give it a class name of text
dl-4 margin top of 10 text- Center and
w- full and finally we can render the
posts so we can say posts. pages. map
here we Rend it through all the pages
where we get each individual item and
and an index and we return something
known as a grid post list this is
another component that we don't yet have
so it's going to result in an error
right now but we can pass it a key equal
to something like page-
index as well as posts which is equal to
item. documents so posts on that
specific page and now of course
everything is breaking because we have
to create two new components search
results and GD post list so let's do
that immediately by going to components
shared search results. TSX where we run
rafc as well
as grid poost list. TSX where we run
rafc again now we can import both of
these components right
here but if we go a bit above and then
comment out these posts because right
now this breaks because the pages don't
exist on posts so maybe we can add
question marks right here to make this
work for now that's not going to work so
we can comment it out and the reason why
it's not working is because these
variables are not working as the pages
don't exist under posts so we can
comment all of that out and we're left
with the base structure of course the
next meaningful thing to do is to
actually fetch real posts that we can
explore and then implement the search as
well so let's go ahead and let's focus
on getting the post for our explore page
and don't forget that in the explore
page we have this wonderful infinite
scroll so you'll always be able to get
new content as you scroll down so let's
go ahead and Implement that fetch posts
you know the drill we first have to go
to the API app right and to create this
function we can create an export async
function get infinite posts of course
we're missing an N right here and it's
going to accept an object called page
peram which is going to essentially be
page per Ram of a type number inside of
here we want to define the queries which
we want to fetch the post by so we can
say const queries of a type array with
any kind of content
is equal to array of query. order
descending based off of the updated ad
property and we have to add a dollar
sign up front so we want to get the
newest post first and we want to limit
it to query. limit of 20 10 is okay as
well considering that we also have
infinite loading then we want to check
if we have page prrams so if page pram
in that case queries. push we also want
to add a
query. cursor after what does this mean
well it means if we're at the page two
skip the first 10 already and give me
the second 10 right so we can say page
Pam do two
string so the page param is actually
going to be a number of how many pages
or documents do we want to
skip once we know that information we
can open up a new trial and catch Block
in the catch we can simply consel log
the
error and in the try we can try to fetch
those posts by saying const posts is
equal to await
databases. list
documents from a database with an ID of
ight config database ID and the
collection with an ID of aight config
that post collection ID and then we want
to pass all the queries BAS off of which
we want to fetch the
data if there are no posts we can throw
an error in case there are we can return
the posts that's it for the get infinite
posts believe it or not but while we're
here let's also do the search and that's
going to be really similar to get
infinite posts so let's duplicate it
below let's change the name this time to
search posts we won't need any kind of
page Brams we'll need search term of a
type
string we don't need any kind of queries
or page prams the only thing we need to
do is fetch the
posts so here we can have one specific
query which is going to be query. search
and we can search by caption and the
search term is going to be the search
term that we're passing through props
there we go and again thank you tab
script it's complaining that the search
term should be not a second part of the
array but rather a second part of this
search object there we go and then we're
returning the
posts with that we're done with the
search posts now as you know the drill
we have to consume those within queries
and
mutations so let's say export const use
get posts which is equal to a function
that returns something known as a use
infinite query this is a buil-in react
query feature here want to pass a query
key meaning which posts do we want to
get and that's going to be query keys.
getet infinite posts then we need to
pass a query function which is going to
be get infinite posts coming from aight
API and then we have to figure out how
we're going to paginate so we can say
get next page for Ram which is going to
contain the last page that we visited
then if there's no data that means there
are no more pages so we can say if we're
on the last
page and if last
page documents.
length is equal to zero then we can
return
null else we want to find the ID of the
last page so we can say last ID is equal
to last page.
documents and then we want to get the
last page. documents.
length minus one this is going to give
us the last page and then we can say
that dollar sign ID of that page and we
can return the last ID here it's
complaining that last page is possibly
undefined that's okay we know it will
not be and finally we can do a similar
one for the use search posts so right
here we can say export const use search
posts is equal to a function where we
pass the search term of a type string
and then we return a use
Query where the query key is equal to
query. keys and then it's going to be
search posts and we don't pass the
search term here we pass it under query
function once we call the
function so query FN is going to be a
callback function where we call the
function we created called search posts
coming from aight API to which we pass
the search term finally as before we
have to do the enabled this means when
is it going to automatically refetch
when the search term changes and this is
how we do it so this is great now we can
consume both of these within our explore
page in the same way we have been doing
so far so right here at the top const
data as searched posts and is fetching
as is search fetching that's equal to
use search posts coming from queries and
mutations to which we have to pass the
search value one cool thing about this
is if we were to just pass a regular
search value it would recall this every
time that we enter a keystroke but this
can be quite draining for our API and
our server and everybody involved so
usually what you want to do is you want
to do it after a specific amount of
milliseconds pass by then you want to do
another call this is a method called
debouncing so what you can do is close
everything collapse all the files go to
source and create a new folder called
hooks within hooks you can create a hook
called use debounce
dots and this is a hook that I found
directly from react query here they
provided its entire code essentially
what it does is as you start typing it
de bounces the query so it saves you
performance and this entire debounce
query is going to be in the GitHub gist
down below so you can simply copy it and
paste it right right here once we have
it instead of passing the search value
we can define a new const debounced
value which is going to be equal to use
the bounce to which you pass the search
value and then set in number of
milliseconds like 500 until when it's
going to be recalled and you need to
import use de bounds from hooks use
debounce and then you can pass the
debounced value which is going to make
our application even even more
optimized so here we have everything
when it comes to the search but above
the search we can also Define const data
as
posts fetch next page as well as has
next page which is equal to use get
post and then we have to import this
from queries and
mutations now this gives us a lot of
data to work with because no longer
longer do we have to fake the posts now
we can actually use these right
here and we can uncomment what we have
right here
below if you do that and save it we
still get an error but that's okay we
can go to inspect and then conso and we
can see that it's complaining that it
cannot read undefined at Pages line 16
so that is right here apparently our
posts still don't have the pages
other errors also include I'm guessing
something related to that yes so what we
can do is we can conso log the posts and
see what are we getting back if I reload
the page once again it seems like the
posts are
undefined so let's figure out why that
is one thing that we might need to do is
just ensure that we don't get to this
block of code if the posts are undefined
and it seems that they are so what we
can do is add an if state statement
right
here checking if we don't have posts and
if we don't yet have posts then we can
simply return a div that has a class
name equal to flex D Center w-o and h-
fool and this is going to render only
one thing which is going to be our
self-closing loader component coming
from components shared loader if we save
this you can see that our app works
again and we can see that first the
posts are undefined but then as soon as
it loads them we get one post right here
with the caption that we have entered so
this is great and now you can see that
we're displaying the grid post list
great and we're passing the posts within
them so what do you say that we try to
show these posts on the explore page
let's go ahead and go into the grid post
list and let's implement it first things
first let's get all the necessary props
most important one is going to be posts
so we can Define this as grid post list
props and we can Define them right here
at the top by saying type GD post list
props posts is going to be of a type
models. document but it's going to be an
array of these models coming from
ight now that we have the post here
let's also get the user because we'll
have to know which ones were created by
the user
so you know the drill const user is
equal to use user context which we
import from OD
context now that we have this we can
wrap all of this in a UL an unordered
list that has a class name equal to grid
Das
container and let's save it you can see
it disappears and now within here we can
map over the posts by saying posts. map
where we get each individual post and
for each one we can return a list item
for now let's say that we just returned
a post. caption if we do it you can see
only one post caption here but of course
we want to make this a bit more
interesting and something like this
would be great an explore page where we
can see all the popular posts we have a
nice looking image a Creator in bottom
left and then save and like on the
bottom right as well and then we can
Scroll of course with the infinite
scroll as much as we want to down below
so this is the goal and we can implement
it so instead of just An Li Let's do an
Li that has a key equal to post. doar ID
as We're looping over it and the class
name of
relative m-w of 80 and H of 80 as well
now instead of rendering a post caption
right here we want to render a link this
link is of course coming from import
link from react router
Dom this link is going to wrap our image
so right here we can Define our image
that's going to have a source equal to
post. image URL and there we go so now
once we click it we wanted to go to the
Post details of this post so let's say
two slost slost dooll sign
ID now if we click it we go away that's
great let's also give it a class name
equal to grid Das postore link and
that's going to make it look a bit
better the image itself is going to have
an Al tag of post as well as a class
name of h- full for full height w-o for
full width and object cover so it looks
good there we go now below this link we
need to show the information about a
user but we're going to reuse this grid
a couple of times we're going to reuse
it on our profile later on as well
specifically on liked posts and more and
as you can see and on the Explorer we're
going to show the stats like save and
like but if we're visiting somebody's
profile we don't necessarily have to
show the stats because you're not going
to like your own posts so that's why
we're going to make this component
modifiable as every component should be
we can pass some additional props such
as show user by default set to true as
well as show stats also by default set
to true but in case you want to pass a
false you can do that so right here at
the top we can also add two new types
show user question mark meaning it's
optional of a type Boolean and show
stats question mark Boolean which means
that it is optional so now if we go
below this link we can create a new div
that's going to have a class name equal
to grid
dstore user and within here we want to
check if show user is true then we want
to return a div that's going to have a
class name equal to for now flex and
it's going to render an image that's
going to have a source equal to post.
creator
image
URL and now you can see it right this is
the little image that we need to show of
who created the post we can give it an
Al tag of
Creator as well as a class name of
h-8
w-8 and rounded Das full as we usually
do with profile images and there we go
now it's a little profile icon on the
bottom left we can also create a P tag
that's going to render the post.
creator.
name and we can also give it a class
name off line- clamp D1 which is going
to ensure it fits in one line let's also
add a couple more properties to this div
Flex items D
Center justify Das start a gap of two to
divide them a bit and the flex of
one great now we can go below this div
and below the dynamic block and we can
also check whether we want to show the
stats if we do want to show the stats we
can render the post stats component so
post stats like so we can import it from
Post stats pass over the post equal to
post as a prop as well as the user ID
equal to user. ID as a prop if we save
it you can see like and save and we can
do that right here from the explore page
this is great now our explore page is
almost done we still have to do the
search of course but let's go ahead and
add another post to see how it looks
like let's go to create add a caption
something like learning nextjs 13 select
the photo add a location something like
add home and add tags such as
nextjs
learning coding and we can create a post
this right now works pretty flawlessly I
got to say we get redirected to the
homepage and we can immediately see our
new photo like a real social media
application our timestamps work as well
so just now at home we have different
tags and we can click it to go to the
Post details we can like it and we can
also of course head to explore where the
new photo now appears at the Top This is
is great now what do you say that we
focus on the search next so here we have
a component called search results and if
you remember we have already created the
searched post right here so let's pass
some of the values into our search
results specifically we can pass the is
search fetching which is going to be the
loading State equal to is search
fetching as well as the search post
which is going to be a query request
coming from our used query finally we
can head into this component and we can
start implementing search the first
thing we have to do is accept those two
props by saying is search fetching and
search
posts and this is going to be of a
type search results
props we can of course Define the type
right above so type search result props
it's going to get the is search fetching
which is going to be a Boolean and
search posts which can be a collection
of models dot
document and an array and we can import
that from aite now how is our search
going to look like well our search is
going to be a really simple
component as a matter of fact it's going
to be almost like an if so we're going
to return a couple of different things
if we're fetching the search posts we
can simply return return the loader
component which we have to import from
loader on the other hand if searched
posts exist so if search posts.
documents. length is greater than zero
then we want to return the same grid
post list that we have already created
but this time we want to pass something
else to it so I'm going to put it in a
new line like so and we can also put
this in a new line so it's easier to
understand it's a real function block
there we go so we want to return this
grid post list and we need to pass to it
posts which now are not just going to be
explore posts but rather searched
posts.
documents there we go here tapescript is
complaining a bit I made two mistakes
first of all I have to spell this prop
correctly and when it comes to the
search posts it's complaining right now
that it does not exist on this property
we can add a check right here saying if
search post exists then we can go ahead
and check for the documents this is just
a top script warning we can look into it
later and here it's saying cannot find
search posts did you mean search posts
yes we indeed did mean that so that's
good thank you tsrip for letting us know
and then we're passing the search posts
into the grid post
list finally if this is not true and
this is not true then it must mean that
we have no searched posts so we can
simply return a p tag that's going to
say no results found and then we can do
a class name of text
dl-4 margin top of 10 text- Center and W
Off
full and this is it this is our search
results component that we have here and
that we're using within our search
results here we have a warning from
typescript this is okay for now we can
come back to it later on
so let's go ahead and test our search we
can try searching for something that we
have on our homepage for example nextjs
13 appears in both we have learning here
and we have ultimate here so let's try
to search for something like that let's
try to go for next.js
it's loading and we get both that's good
both say 13 but only one says 13.5 the
other one is
13.6 so if we do this this it seems like
it's not ref fetching it it just gives
us what's already cached so let's go
into our query for the search that's
going to be search post use search posts
and then here we have to validate the
query again once the search term changes
so we can pass the search term here as
the second parameter and now it's going
to recall it 13.5 and then 13.6 we still
have both but if we search for
ultimate we only have this and if we
search for
learning we only get this which means
that our search is working properly this
is great to see of course there are
filters here that we can also do and in
general if we don't have search then we
have the explore of course this is the
place where we're going to also
implement the infinite loading so we can
immediately fetch all of the next pages
and all of that is going to be pretty
easy to implement using react query and
aite so what we can do is first of all
go all the way down and below this div
we can create a new Dynamic block of
code that says if we have a next page so
has next page and if there is no search
value meaning we are on the explore and
then we want to show a div that's going
to have a ref this is really important a
ref
called ref and a class name of margin
top of
10 of course the app is going to break
now because we haven't yet created this
ref and we can add a loader right here
when we're loading for the next page now
why are we adding a ref to this little
div right here at the bottom well once
we scroll to it and once this reference
gets in view it means we're at the
bottom of the page and we want to start
loading the new posts so let me show you
how to implement that right at the top
we can install a new package this
package is called react intersection
Observer you can see it right here on
mpm you can implement it in Hooks and
it's going to give us access to this use
in view it's going to be really easy to
monitor specific elements in this case
that ref at the bottom the only thing we
have to do is import it attach a ref to
it and then we're going to know once we
reach the bottom of the page again don't
read when the wheel when you can find a
simple package like so and we can easily
install it by running mpm install react
intersection Observer there we go the
package got installed and we can use it
by importing the use in view hook coming
from react intersection Observer now
right at the top we can declare a new
ref const ref and in view which is equal
to the call of the used in view hook
just like
so and then we can also import use
effect coming from react we can Define
it right here at the top by saying use
effect don't Define it below the if
statement use effects have to be above
all conditional
renderings and it's going to render
whenever the inw variable changes or
whenever the search value
changes what we want to do is we want to
check if it is in View and if we're not
searching for something so if there's no
search value then we want to fetch next
page and this is my people how you
implement infinite scroll so let's save
it let's go back to application and now
as you get to the bottom you should be
able to see the scroll up of course it's
not going to give us anything right now
because there are no new
posts but if we limit the number of of
posts per page and if we create more
posts it's going to work we can test it
out really soon so up to this point
we've implemented a lot of stuff so
let's close these files let's expand
this to its full glory and let's see
what we have implemented up to this
point we have a phenomenal registration
and login screen so here we can login
into our account or we can sign up for
an account if we don't have one already
and in this case we can log in with our
password and
email immediately we are redirected to
our home screen where we can see our
great
posts each post can be liked unliked and
also saved let's not forget that we also
have a phenomenal explore page where we
can see more posts that are popular
today if you want you can add additional
filters and we have complete search
search so if you search for something
it's going to show up and also lead you
to that post Details page also don't
forget that everything is completely
mobile responsive and it has this native
mobile UI we've laid down the foundation
for creating something extraordinary a
fullblown social media application of
course there's a couple of pages that
are missing such as the People page
where we show all the users the saved
page where we simply have to fetch all
the saved posts and then display them
these two pages look like this here you
fetch people and you show them and if
you notice the saved it's going to look
almost exactly the same as our explore
that's because we're reusing the same
grid component finally there is the
profile page where we can see the likes
as well and the edit profile but I want
you to pause here for a second first of
all congratulations on coming this far
into this tutorial it has been a long
one you've shown a lot of dedication to
learning and trying new things out so
pat yourself on the back and be proud
over the years many of you have asked me
how I approach something or develop
something that mindset that developers
have and today I want to do something
special I want to tell you how I
approach things for the rest of the
features that we'll be building today if
you see many people are successfully
able to do something by following a
tutorial like this or other content but
their real struggles begin when they're
faced with something new most of us will
still be clueless even though we have
done something similar before by
following a YouTube tutorial this is
known as tutorial hell and in our nextjs
course we have tried to solve that we
have created a So-Cal active lesson
learning where you still have all of the
lessons that we usually us have such as
setting everything up and coding things
from scratch but soon enough we dive
into something special and that is
active lessons they start from the
sidebar and then whenever you want to
implement something before we do it
together you have to do it on your
own let me give you an example for the
homepage here you have to create a
question card UI so here we have a
complete active lesson that guides you
how to do that specifically with the
mindset part teaching you how to
approach it like a real developer it
gives you something to think about
additional resources and even hints that
you can uncover by hovering over and
then in the next module I teach you how
to do it from scratch in a long lecture
and why am I telling you this well I
don't really believe in tutorial hell
watching tutorials is great but what I
believe is missing is the thinking part
when you're watching a video you have to
stop and ask yourself how would I
approach it and only then watch the
solution but very few of us do that and
this is why we blame it on tutorial hell
and why you're missing that developer
mindset that's why in our next GS course
we have scattered around so many of
these active lessons so that you can
actually learn by building remember good
developers don't have someone holding
their hands they figure things out on
their own because they have developed
their mindset I don't have any graphics
right now but just pause for a second
and listen there's an old saying that
says give a man a fish and you'll feed
him for a day teach a man how to fish
and you'll feed him for a lifetime for
that reason in this free YouTube video I
want to give you a glimpse of what we
have in our course by introducing some
active lessons for the remaining pages
to see how you will approach building
them I hope you're excited to continue
with this project by learning while
doing so let's get started and I proudly
present to you active lessons for our
snapgram application the link is going
to be down in the description the first
active lesson is about implementing the
infinite scroll and this is the feature
that we have already built so I have
specifically introduced this one to go
over it and to show you how you're going
to do the future ones on your own now
that you know how we did this one
together so the task and the mission is
to think and try the infinite Scrolls in
the application for the home users and
profile Pages even though we have
already implemented it for the explore
page you can also make it go right here
in the homepage so here we provided you
some examples saying that you can visit
the original Instagram application and
then see how every time you scroll down
new posts appear and then some
additional resources as well such as the
query key query function infinite query
app pagination aate queries and more all
of the resources you need to make this
possible of course most of these are
actual documentation sites and then
there's also a mustre resource which is
a react query article on infinite
scroll finally we have some hints as
well the entire process needed to
develop this is nicely laid out in form
of hints and not only that it urges you
to think and develop that developer
mindset so it asks asks you what do we
need how should it work or Ro does that
mean that Instagram is showing many
posts in one request and then even some
code blocks to get you to implement this
on your own in case you get stuck and
need any
assistance as you can see it goes on and
on and on and gives you the code needed
to implement these features within the
application we have been building so far
how cool is that it's a completely new
paradigm to learning so just give it a
go and tell me how you like it and once
again if it's not working as expected
don't feel frustrated it's a part of the
developer's life so start again and
debug everything line by line see if
you're getting any documents and check
if the last ID is being calculated
properly and whether it's being passed
to the query function or not just keep
trying if you get stuck just refer to
the finished code repository on GitHub
this right here was just the first of
the active lessons we have implemented
it for explore page but you can do it
for the homepage as well and then we
have five more the top creators is the
next feature you have to implement and
in this case we have even provided you
with a figma design you can see it here
so you have to implement the top
creators right sidebar once again you
have everything you need here we even
recommend to play a little flexb game to
test out your Flex skills and then again
we dive into a large number of different
hints they go linearly from start to
finish so you can try coding it on your
own and then try to think in layouts try
to implement different things try to do
it on your own but if you get stuck you
can visit the hints then again we're
going to implement the all users section
next here you can check out the design
and then we go through different must
plays or must reads as well as some
additional hints you can follow to
implement the feature
and I don't think I got to say it but
this is repeated for the save posts for
the edit profile and finally for the
profile page itself I truly believe that
this is a new way to learning of course
feel free to let me know what you think
down in the comments and if you'd like
me to do more things like this in the
future with that said give it a go try
to go through as many of these active
lessons as possible see how you like
them try to implement some of the
features and then come back to this
video to deploy the project to the
Internet so how did it go I hope you are
able to take your time and I know it can
take a lot of time maybe even more than
the entire video you've been watching
because implementing things on your own
actually challenges you a lot so I hope
you did good if not there's more things
to do and more things to learn but
learning means improving so in any case
now however much of the project you've
finished let's go ahead and deploy to
the internet to get together we'll be
deploying our project to versell so you
can head to versell decom and log in or
sign up once you log in you should be
able to see your projects and you might
not have as many as I do as you can see
we have hundreds and hundreds of
projects right here most of them belong
to our JSM masterclass experience
students so in our master class which is
the JSM boot camp we actively teach
people how to develop projects on their
own
within a team and this can be considered
even an additional step to these active
lessons the active lessons though are
reserved for the nextjs course Andy will
also gotten a chance to experience them
in this video so with that said let's go
ahead and click add new and we can
select project you can notice that it's
going to ask us to import a get
repository which means that we have to
upload our project to GitHub and to do
that you can go to github.com
slne and create a new project called
something like
snapgram you can make it public or
private I'm going to make it private in
this case and click create
repository once the repo is there we can
push our code to it by dragging this to
the side opening up our terminal of
course we have to stop it from running
and then you can run get init get add
dot get commit Dash first
commit and then you need to copy a
couple of command from here such as git
Branch M main get remote at origin and
get push you origin
Master once you do it our code should
now be live on GitHub which you can see
if you simply reload and there we go our
code is here now that repo is live we
can go back to versel and it
automatically figured that we have a new
V project right here here which we can
import once you import it you'll have to
add your environment variables so back
in our code you can go to our env. looc
copy all the variables and simply paste
them right here it's going to
automatically figure out all the
individual variables and click deploy as
you can see the deployment is cued so
let's give it a minute and let's see if
it's successful and in just 30 seconds
our website is now live and and let's go
ahead and click here to visit our
deployed
application there we go our sign in is
looking great but if you go to inspect
and if you look into the console you can
notice that we cannot really make a
request to our new domain or rather the
access to ight is being blocked from our
new domain that's because of the course
policy something that developers don't
really like but thankfully there's an
easy way around it you need to go to
aight and then you need to add a new
platform in this case we're going to do
web the name is going to be
snapgram and the host name can be
everything ad verell thata and we can
click
next finally let's skip optional
steps and this created a new integration
with a web platform where we have
deployed our snapgram and every single
host name on verell should work so let's
go back clear the the console and reload
the
page we immediately get logged in into
our new domain if that hasn't worked for
you you can just manually log in and
with that said you should be able to
have this explore features the people as
well if you have implemented it saved
features as well everything is working
flawlessly on our newly deployed website
how great is that so how did you like
the build if you're watching all the way
until the end I hope you loved it Andy
and how did you like the new active
lessons I hope they truly tested you and
helped you build your own developer
mindset if you want to improve your game
and build even better applications now
using nextjs instead of react you can do
so in your nextjs 13 course so just go
to jm.pro and check it out within it we
have many more active lessons and a lot
of interesting things to learn to land a
developer job and finally huge thanks to
aight not only for sponsoring this video
but for building such a phenomenal
open-source platform that lets us add OD
databases function and storage in a
matter of minutes once again thank you
so much for watching and I'll see you in
the next one have a wonderful day